Amlodipine 5mg  tablets - Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) - (emc) | 4717
We use cookies to improve your experience and to help us understand how our site is used. You can find out more about your options on our
Cookies page
.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
About Cookies
×
Most websites these days use cookies to store and retrieve information. Some of this information might be about you,
                your preferences or your device and is mostly used to help the website work in the way you expect.
This information doesn’t usually directly identify you but can give you a more personalized experience.
We will never sell any of your personally identifiable information, whether gathered using a cookie or otherwise.
We respect your right to privacy, so you can choose whether or not some cookies are enabled on our website.
                However, disabling some cookies can impact your experience and the services we are able to offer. For more information see our Cookie settings and Privacy Policy.
Essential Cookies (Required)
These cookies are essential for the website to work properly and can’t be turned off.
They don’t collect personal information.
We also use them to understand how the site is used.
You can choose to block these cookies in your browser, but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Analytics Cookies (Optional)
These cookies help us improve our website and keep content relevant.
We use third-party tools to analyse information gathered by cookies and understand how visitors use our website.
We only use information gathered by cookies internally. See our Privacy Policy.
You can turn these cookies off by clicking "Reject optional cookies", but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Menu
Home
Medicines
Browse medicine A-Z
Browse active ingredient A-Z
Medicines with black triangle
Discontinued medicines
RMM directory
Companies
Latest updates
About emc
Help
Log in
Sign up
Search emc: Enter medicine name or company
Start typing to retrieve search suggestions. When suggestions are available use up and down arrows to review and ENTER to select. Continue typing to refine.
Advanced search
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Report side effect
Report a suspected side effect or falsified product to the MHRA Yellow Card scheme.
Go to
site
Certified November 2025
Back to top
Amlodipine 5mg  tablets
Notify me of changes to this product
×
emc account functionality
Sign in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Active Ingredient:
amlodipine besilate
Company:
Aurobindo Pharma - Milpharm Ltd.
See contact details
ATC code:
C08CA01
About Medicine
Prescription only medicine
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Healthcare Professionals (SmPC)
Patient Leaflet (PIL)
This information is for use by healthcare professionals
Last updated on emc:
20 Apr 2026
Quick Links
Undesirable Effects
Pharmacological Properties
Interactions
Posology
Contraindications
Excipients
Storage precautions
Print SmPC information
Expand All
1. Name of the medicinal product
Amlodipine 5 mg tablets
2. Qualitative and quantitative composition
Each tablet contains amlodipine besilate equivalent to 5 mg of amlodipine.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. Pharmaceutical form
Tablet
White or almost white, flat, bevelled edges, barrel-shaped tablet debossed with "C" on one side and "58" on the other side. The size is 8 mm x 6 mm.
4. Clinical particulars
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Hypertension
Chronic stable angina pectoris.
Vasospastic (Prinzmetal's) angina
4.2 Posology and method of administration
Posology
Adults
For both hypertension and angina the usual initial dose is 5 mg Amlodipine once daily which may be increased to a maximum dose of 10 mg depending on the individual patient's response.
In hypertensive patients, Amlodipine has been used in combination with a thiazide diuretic, alpha blocker, beta blocker, or an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. For angina, Amlodipine may be used as monotherapy or in combination with other antianginal medicinal products in patients with angina that is refractory to nitrates and/or to adequate doses of beta blockers.
No dose adjustment of Amlodipine is required upon concomitant administration of thiazide diuretics, beta blockers, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Special populations
Elderly
Amlodipine used at similar doses in elderly or younger patients is equally well tolerated. Normal dosage regimens are recommended in the elderly, but increase of the dosage should take place with care (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
Dosage recommendations have not been established in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment; therefore dose selection should be cautious and should start at the lower end of the dosing range (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine have not been studied in severe hepatic impairment. Amlodipine should be initiated at the lowest dose and titrated slowly in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
Renal impairment
Changes in amlodipine plasma concentrations are not correlated with degree of renal impairment, therefore the normal dosage is recommended. Amlodipine is not dialysable.
Paediatric population
Children and adolescents with hypertension from 6 years to 17 years of age.
The recommended antihypertensive oral dose in paediatric patient's ages 6-17 years is 2.5 mg once daily as a starting dose, up-titrated to 5 mg once daily if blood pressure goal is not achieved after 4 weeks. Amlodipine 2.5 mg is not currently available and the 2.5 mg dose cannot be obtained with Amlodipine 5 mg tablets as these tablets are not manufactured to break into two equal halves. Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in paediatric patients (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
Children under 6 years old
No data are available.
Method of administration
Tablet for oral administration.
4.3 Contraindications
Amlodipine is contraindicated in patients with:
- hypersensitivity to dihydropyridine derivatives, amlodipine or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
- severe hypotension
- shock (including cardiogenic shock)
- obstruction of the outflow tract of the left ventricle (e.g. high grade aortic stenosis)
- haemodynamically unstable heart failure after acute myocardial infarction
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use
The safety and efficacy of amlodipine in hypertensive crisis has not been established.
Cardiac failure:
Patients with heart failure should be treated with caution. In a long-term, placebo controlled study in patients with severe heart failure (NYHA class III and IV) the reported incidence of pulmonary oedema was higher in the amlodipine treated group than in the placebo group (see section 5.1). Calcium channel blockers, including amlodipine, should be used with caution in patients with congestive heart failure, as they may increase the risk of future cardiovascular events and mortality.
Hepatic impairment:
The half-life of amlodipine is prolonged and AUC values are higher in patients with impaired liver function; dosage recommendations have not been established. Amlodipine should therefore be initiated at the lower end of the dosing range and caution should be used, both on initial treatment and when increasing the dose. Slow dose titration and careful monitoring may be required in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
Elderly
In the elderly increase of the dosage should take place with care (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Renal impairment:
Amlodipine may be used in such patients at normal doses. Changes in amlodipine plasma concentrations are not correlated with degree of renal impairment. Amlodipine is not dialyzable.
Amlodipine contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 'sodium-free.'
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Effects of other medicinal products on amlodipine
CYP3A4 inhibitors:
Concomitant use of amlodipine with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, macrolides like erythromycin or clarithromycin, verapamil or diltiazem) may give rise to significant increase in amlodipine exposure resulting in an increased risk of hypotension.. The clinical translation of these PK variations may be more pronounced in the elderly. Clinical monitoring and dose adjustment may thus be required.
CYP3A4 inducers:
Upon co-administration of known inducers of the CYP3A4, the plasma concentration of amlodipine may vary. Therefore, blood pressure should be monitored and dose regulation considered both during and after concomitant medication particularly with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, hypericum perforatum).
Administration of amlodipine with grapefruit or grapefruit juice is not recommended as bioavailability may be increased in some patients resulting in increased blood pressure lowering effects.
Dantrolene (infusion):
In animals, lethal ventricular fibrillation and cardiovascular collapse are observed in association with hyperkalemia after administration of verapamil and intravenous dantrolene. Due to risk of hyperkalemia, it is recommended that the co-administration of calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine be avoided in patients susceptible to malignant hyperthermia and in the management of malignant hyperthermia.
Effects of amlodipine on other medicinal products:
The blood pressure lowering effects of amlodipine adds to the blood pressure-lowering effects of other medicinal products with antihypertensive properties.
Tacrolimus:
There is a risk of increased tacrolimus blood levels when co- administered with amlodipine but the pharmacokinetic mechanism of this interaction is not fully understood. In order to avoid toxicity of tacrolimus, administration of amlodipine in a patient treated with tacrolimus requires monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels and dose adjustment of tacrolimus when appropriate.
Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin (mTOR) Inhibitors:
mTOR inhibitors such as sirolimus, temsirolimus, and everolimus are CYP3A substrates. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. With concomitant use of mTOR inhibitors, amlodipine may increase exposure of mTOR inhibitors.
Cyclosporine
:
No drug interaction studies have been conducted with cyclosporine and amlodipine in healthy volunteers or other populations with the exception of renal transplant patients, where variable trough concentration increases (average 0% - 40%) of cyclosporine were observed. Consideration should be given for monitoring cyclosporine levels in renal transplant patients on amlodipine, and cyclosporine dose reductions should be made as necessary.
Simvastatin
:
Co-administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77% increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily.
In clinical interaction studies, amlodipine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin, digoxin, or warfarin.
4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
The safety of amlodipine in human pregnancy has not been established.
In animal studies, reproductive toxicity was observed at high doses (see section 5.3).
Use in pregnancy is only recommended when there is no safer alternative and when the disease itself carries greater risk for the mother and foetus.
Breast-feeding
Amlodipine is excreted in human milk. The proportion of the maternal dose received by the infant has been estimated with an interquartile range of 3 - 7%, with a maximum of 15%. The effect of amlodipine on infants is unknown.. A decision on whether to continue/discontinue breast-feeding or to continue/discontinue therapy with amlodipine should be made taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding to the child and the benefit of amlodipine therapy to the mother.
Fertility
Reversible biochemical changes in the head of spermatozoa have been reported in some patients treated by calcium channel blockers. Clinical data are insufficient regarding the potential effect of amlodipine on fertility. In one rat study, adverse effects were found on male fertility (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Amlodipine can have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. If patients taking amlodipine suffer from dizziness, headache, fatigue or nausea the ability to react may be impaired. Caution is recommended especially at the start of treatment.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most commonly reported adverse reactions during treatment are somnolence, dizziness, headache, palpitations, flushing, abdominal pain, nausea, ankle swelling, oedema and fatigue.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following adverse reactions have been observed and reported during treatment with amlodipine with the following frequencies: Very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000) not known (cannot be estimated from the available data).
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
System Organ Class
Frequency
Adverse reactions
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Very Rare
Leukocytopenia, thrombocytopenia
Immune system disorders
Very Rare
Allergic reactions
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Very Rare
Hyperglycaemia
Psychiatric disorders
Uncommon
Insomnia, mood changes (including anxiety), depression
Rare
Confusion
Nervous system disorders
Common
Somnolence, dizziness, headache (especially at the beginning of the treatment)
Uncommon
Tremor, dysgeusia, syncope, hypoesthesia, paresthesia
Very Rare
Hypertonia,
peripheral neuropathy
Not known
Extrapyramidal disorder
Eye disorders
Common
Visual disturbance (including diplopia)
Ear and labyrinth disorders
Uncommon
Tinnitus
Cardiac disorders
Common
Palpitations
Uncommon
Arrhythmia (including bradycardia, ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation)
Very Rare
Myocardial infarction
Vascular disorders
Common
Flushing
Uncommon
Hypotension
Very Rare
Vasculitis
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Common
Dyspnoea
Uncommon
Cough, rhinitis
Gastrointestinal disorders
Common
Abdominal pain, nausea , dyspepsia, altered bowel habits (including diarrhoea and constipation)
Uncommon
Vomiting, dry mouth
Very Rare
Pancreatitis, gastritis, gingival hyperplasia
Hepato-biliary disorders
Very Rare
Hepatitis, jaundice, hepatic enzymes increased*
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Uncommon
Alopecia, purpura, skin discolouration, hyperhidrosis, pruritus, rash, exanthema, urticaria
Very Rare
Angioedema, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, Quincke oedema, photosensitivity
Not Known
Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
Common
Ankle swelling, muscle cramps
Uncommon
Arthralgia, myalgia, back pain
Renal and urinary disorders
Uncommon
Micturition disorder, nocturia, increased urinary frequency
Reproductive system and breast disorders
Uncommon
Impotence, gynecomastia
General disorders and administration site conditions
Common
Oedema
Common
Fatigue, asthenia
Uncommon
Chest pain, pain, malaise
Investigations
Uncommon
Weight increased, weight decreased
*mostly consistent with cholestasis
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via Yellow Card Scheme
Website: www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard
4.9 Overdose
In humans experience with intentional overdose is limited
Symptoms
:
Available data suggest that gross overdosage could result in excessive peripheral vasodilatation and possibly reflex tachycardia. Marked and probably prolonged systemic hypotension up to and including shock with fatal outcome have been reported.
Non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema has rarely been reported as a consequence of amlodipine overdose that may manifest with a delayed onset (24-48 hours post-ingestion) and require ventilatory support. Early resuscitative measures (including fluid overload) to maintain perfusion and cardiac output may be precipitating factors.
Treatment
:
Clinically significant hypotension due to amlodipine overdosage calls for active cardiovascular support including frequent monitoring of cardiac and respiratory function, elevation of extremities and attention to circulating fluid volume and urine output.
A vasoconstrictor may be helpful in restoring vascular tone and blood pressure, provided that there is no contraindication to its use. Intravenous calcium gluconate may be beneficial in reversing the effects of calcium channel blockade.
Gastric lavage may be worthwhile in some cases. In healthy volunteers the use of charcoal up to 2 hours after administration of amlodipine 10 mg has been shown to reduce the absorption rate of amlodipine.
Since amlodipine is highly protein-bound, dialysis is not likely to be of benefit.
5. Pharmacological properties
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Calcium channel blockers, selective calcium channel blockers with mainly vascular effects;
ATC code: C 08 CA 01
Amlodipine is a calcium ion influx inhibitor of the dihydropyridine group (slow channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist) and inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into cardiac and vascular smooth muscle.
The mechanism of the antihypertensive action of amlodipine is due to a direct relaxant effect on vascular smooth muscle. The precise mechanism by which amlodipine relieves angina has not been fully determined but amlodipine reduces total ischaemic burden by the following two actions:
1) Amlodipine dilates peripheral arterioles and thus, reduces the total peripheral resistance (afterload) against which the heart works. Since the heart rate remains stable, this unloading of the heart reduces myocardial energy consumption and oxygen requirements.
2) The mechanism of action of amlodipine also probably involves dilatation of the main coronary arteries and coronary arterioles, both in normal and ischaemic regions. This dilatation increases myocardial oxygen delivery in patients with coronary artery spasm (Prinzmetal's or variant angina).
In patients with hypertension, once daily dosing provides clinically significant reductions of blood pressure in both the supine and standing positions throughout the 24 hour interval. Due to the slow onset of action, acute hypotension is not a feature of amlodipine administration.
In patients with angina, once daily administration of amlodipine increases total exercise time, time to angina onset, and time to 1 mm ST segment depression, and decreases both angina attack frequency and glyceryl trinitrate tablet consumption.
Amlodipine has not been associated with any adverse metabolic effects or changes in plasma lipids and is suitable for use in patients with asthma, diabetes, and gout.
Use in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD)
The effectiveness of amlodipine in preventing clinical events in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) has been evaluated in an independent, multi-center, randomized, double- blind, placebo-controlled study of 1997 patients; Comparison of Amlodipine vs. Enalapril to Limit Occurrences of Thrombosis (CAMELOT). Of these patients, 663 were treated with amlodipine 5-10 mg, 673 patients were treated with enalapril 10-20 mg, and 655 patients were treated with placebo, in addition to standard care of statins, beta-blockers, diuretics and aspirin, for 2 years. The key efficacy results are presented in Table 1. The results indicate that amlodipine treatment was associated with fewer hospitalizations for angina and revascularization procedures in patients with CAD.
Table 1. Incidence of significant clinical outcomes for CAMELOT
Cardiovascular event rates,
No. (%)
Amlopidine vs. Placebo
Outcomes
Amlopidine
Placebo
Enalapril
Hazard Ratio (95% CI)
P
Value
Primary Endpoint
Adverse cardiovascular events
110 (16.6)
151 (23.1)
136 (20.2)
0.69 (0.54-0.88)
.003
Individual Components
Coronary revascularization
78 (11.8)
103 (15.7)
95 (14.1)
0.73 (0.54-0.98)
.03
Hospitalization for angina
51 (7.7)
84 (12.8)
86 (12.8)
0.58 (0.41-0.82)
.002
Nonfatal MI
14 (2.1)
19 (2.9)
11 (1.6)
0.73 (0.37-1.46)
.37
Stroke or TIA
6 (0.9)
12 (1.8)
8 (1.2)
0.50 (0.19-1.32)
.15
Cardiovascular death
5 (0.8)
2 (0.3)
5 (0.7)
2.46 (0.48-12.7)
.27
Hospitalization for CHF
3 (0.5)
5 (0.8)
4 (0.6)
0.59 (0.14-2.47)
.46
Resuscitated cardiac arrest
0
4 (0.6)
1 (0.1)
NA
.04
New-onset peripheral vascular disease
5 (0.8)
2 (0.3)
8 (1.2)
2.6 (0.50-13.4)
.24
Abbreviations: CHF, congestive heart failure; CI, confidence interval; MI, myocardial infarction; TIA, transient ischemic attack.
Use in patients with heart failure
Haemodynamic studies and exercise based controlled clinical trials in NYHA Class II-IV heart failure patients have shown that Amlodipine did not lead to clinical deterioration as measured by exercise tolerance, left ventricular ejection fraction and clinical symptomatology.
A placebo controlled study (PRAISE) designed to evaluate patients in NYHA Class III-IV heart failure receiving digoxin, diuretics and ACE inhibitors has shown that Amlodipine did not lead to an increase in risk of mortality or combined mortality and morbidity with heart failure.
In a follow-up, long term, placebo controlled study (PRAISE-2) of Amlodipine in patients with NYHA III and IV heart failure without clinical symptoms or objective findings suggestive of underlying ischaemic disease, on stable doses of ACE inhibitors, digitalis, and diuretics, Amlodipine had no effect on total cardiovascular mortality. In this same population Amlodipine was associated with increased reports of pulmonary oedema.
Treatment to prevent heart attack trial (ALLHAT)
A randomized double-blind morbidity-mortality study called the Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) was performed to compare newer drug therapies: amlodipine 2.5-10 mg/d (calcium channel blocker) or lisinopril 10-40 mg/d (ACE-inhibitor) as first-line therapies to that of the thiazide-diuretic, chlorthalidone 12.5-25 mg/d in mild to moderate hypertension.
A total of 33,357 hypertensive patients aged 55 or older were randomized and followed for a mean of 4.9 years. The patients had at least one additional CHD risk factor, including: previous myocardial infarction or stroke (> 6 months prior to enrollment) or documentation of other atherosclerotic CVD (overall 51.5%), type 2 diabetes (36.1%), HDL-C < 35 mg/dL (11.6%), left ventricular hypertrophy diagnosed by electrocardiogram or echocardiography (20.9%), current cigarette smoking (21.9%).
The primary endpoint was a composite of fatal CHD or non-fatal myocardial infarction. There was no significant difference in the primary endpoint between amlodipine-based therapy and chlorthalidone-based therapy: RR 0.98 95% CI (0.90-1.07) p=0.65. Among secondary endpoints, the incidence of heart failure (component of a composite combined cardiovascular endpoint) was significantly higher in the amlodipine group as compared to the chlorthalidone group (10.2% vs. 7.7%, RR 1.38, 95% CI [1.25-1.52] p<0.001). However, there was no significant difference in all-cause mortality between amlodipine-based therapy and chlorthalidone-based therapy. RR 0.96 95% CI [0.89-1.02] p=0.20.
Use in children (aged 6 years and older)
In a study involving 268 children aged 6-17 years with predominantly secondary hypertension, comparison of a 2.5mg dose, and 5.0 mg dose of amlodipine with placebo, showed that both doses reduced Systolic Blood Pressure significantly more than placebo. The difference between the two doses was not statistically significant.
The long-term effects of amlodipine on growth, puberty and general development have not been studied. The long-term efficacy of amlodipine on therapy in childhood to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in adulthood have also not been established.
5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption, distribution, plasma protein binding
: After oral administration of therapeutic doses, amlodipine is well absorbed with peak blood levels between 6-12 hours post dose. Absolute bioavailability has been estimated to be between 64 and 80%. The volume of distribution is approximately 21 l/kg.
In vitro
studies have shown that approximately 97.5% of circulating amlodipine is bound to plasma proteins.
The bioavailability of amlodipine is not affected by food intake.
Biotransformation/elimination
The terminal plasma elimination half life is about 35-50 hours and is consistent with once daily dosing. Amlodipine is extensively metabolised by the liver to inactive metabolites with 10% of the parent compound and 60% of metabolites excreted in the urine.
Hepatic impairment
Very limited clinical data are available regarding amlodipine administration in patients with hepatic impairment. Patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine resulting in a longer half-life and an increase in AUC of approximately 40-60%.
Elderly population
The time to reach peak plasma concentrations of amlodipine is similar in elderly and younger subjects. Amlodipine clearance tends to be decreased with resulting increases in AUC and elimination half life in elderly patients. Increases in AUC and elimination half life in patients with congestive heart failure were as expected for the patient age group studied.
Paediatric population
A population PK study has been conducted in 74 hypertensive children aged from 1 to 17 years (with 34 patients aged 6 to 12 years and 28 patients aged 13 to 17 years) receiving amlodipine between 1.25 and 20 mg given either once or twice daily. In children 6 to 12 years and in adolescents 13-17 years of age the typical oral clearance (CL/F) was 22.5 and 27.4 L/hr respectively in males and 16.4 and 21.3 L/hr respectively in females. Large variability in exposure between individuals was observed. Data reported in children below 6 years is limited.
5.3 Preclinical safety data
Reproductive toxicology
Reproductive studies in rats and mice have shown delayed date of delivery, prolonged duration of labour and decreased pup survival at dosages approximately 50 times greater than the maximum recommended dosage for humans based on mg/kg.
Impairment of fertility
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated with amlodipine (males for 64 days and females 14 days prior to mating) at doses up to 10 mg/kg/day (8 times* the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg on a mg/m
2
basis). In another rat study in which male rats were treated with amlodipine besilate for 30 days at a dose comparable with the human dose based on mg/kg, decreased plasma follicle-stimulating hormone and testosterone were found as well as decreases in sperm density and in the number of mature spermatids and Sertoli cells.
Carcinogenesis, mutagenesis
Rats and mice treated with amlodipine in the diet for two years, at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of 0.5, 1.25, and 2.5 mg/kg/day showed no evidence of carcinogenicity. The highest dose (for mice, similar to, and for rats twice* the maximum recommended clinical dose of 10 mg on a mg/m
2
basis) was close to the maximum tolerated dose for mice but not for rats.
Mutagenicity studies revealed no drug related effects at either the gene or chromosome levels.
*Based on patient weight of 50 kg
6. Pharmaceutical particulars
6.1 List of excipients
Microcrystalline cellulose [E 460a]
Calcium hydrogen phosphate
Sodium starch glycolate
Magnesium stearate [E 470B]
6.2 Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3 Shelf life
3 years
6.4 Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Amlodipine tablets are available in PVC/ PVdC-Aluminium blister.
Pack sizes:
Blister pack:
7, 10, 14, 15, 20, 28, 30, 50, 56, 60, 84, 90, 98, 100, 120, 200, 250, 300 and 500 tablets
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
7. Marketing authorisation holder
Milpharm Limited
1 Roundwood Avenue,
Stockley Park,
Uxbridge,
UB11 1AF
United Kingdom
8. Marketing authorisation number(s)
PL 16363/0249
9. Date of first authorisation/renewal of the authorisation
28/01/2025
10. Date of revision of the text
13/04/2026
Aurobindo Pharma - Milpharm Ltd.
Address
Milpharm Limited, 1 Roundwood Avenue, Stockley Park, Uxbridge, UB11 1AF, UK
WWW
http://www.aurobindo.com
Telephone
+ 44 (0)208 845 8811
Medical Information e-mail
[email protected]
Customer Care direct line
+44 (0)208 845 8811
Medical Information Fax
+44 (0)208 845 8795
Contact us
Links
Accessibility
Legal and privacy notice
Cookie notice
Cookie Settings
Glossary
Site Maps
Delivered to you by
