ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM- atorvastatin calcium tablet
NIVAGEN PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
----------


HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
These highlights do not include all the information needed to use ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM
TABLETS safely and effectively. See full prescribing information for ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM
TABLETS.

ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM TABLETS, for oral use
Initial U.S. Approval: 1996
                                         INDICATIONS AND USAGE
Atorvastatin calcium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1):
   To reduce the risk of:
      Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple
      risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD.
      MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without
      clinically evident CHD.
      Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive
      heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD.
   As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) in:
      Adults with primary hyperlipidemia.
      Adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial
      hypercholesterolemia (HeFH).
   As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged
   10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia.
   As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with:
      Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia.
      Hypertriglyceridemia.

                                       DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
    Take orally once daily with or without food ( 2.1).
    Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin calcium
    tablets, and adjust dosage if necessary ( 2.1).
    Adults ( 2.2):
       Recommended starting dosage is 10 or 20 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 mg to 80 mg once
       daily.
       Patients requiring LDL-C reduction >45% may start at 40 mg once daily.
    Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH: Recommended starting dosage is 10 mg
    once daily; dosage range is 10 to 20 mg once daily ( 2.3).
    Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH: Recommended starting dosage is 10 to
    20 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 to 80 mg once daily ( 2.4).
    See full prescribing information for atorvastatin calcium tablets dosage modifications due to drug
    interactions ( 2.5).

                                   DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
Tablets: 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg, 80 mg of atorvastatin ( 3).
                                          CONTRAINDICATIONS
   Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4).
   Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipient in atorvastatin calcium tablets ( 4).

                                    WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
    Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis: Risk factors include age 65 years or greater, uncontrolled
    hypothyroidism, renal impairment, concomitant use with certain other drugs, and higher atorvastatin
    calcium tablets dosage. Discontinue atorvastatin calcium tablets if markedly elevated CK levels occur
    or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Temporarily discontinue atorvastatin calcium tablets in
    patients experiencing an acute or serious condition at high risk of developing renal failure secondary to
    rhabdomyolysis. Inform patients of the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when starting or
  rhabdomyolysis. Inform patients of the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when starting or
  increasing atorvastatin calcium tablets dosage. Instruct patients to promptly report unexplained muscle
  pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever ( 2.5, 5.1, 7.1, 8.5, 8.6).
  Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy (IMNM): Rare reports of IMNM, an autoimmune myopathy,
  have been reported with statin use. Discontinue atorvastatin calcium tablets if IMNM is suspected (
  5.2).
  Hepatic Dysfunction: Increases in serum transaminases have occurred, some persistent. Rare reports
  of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure have occurred. Consider testing liver enzymes before initiating
  therapy and as clinically indicated thereafter. If serious hepatic injury with clinical symptoms and/or
  hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs, promptly discontinue atorvastatin calcium tablets ( 5.3).

                                            ADVERSE REACTIONS
Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥5%) are nasopharyngitis, arthralgia, diarrhea, pain in
extremity, and urinary tract infection ( 6.1).

To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Nivagen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-
877-977-0687 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.
                                          DRUG INTERACTIONS
  See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium tablets
  with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis ( 2.5, 7.1).
  Rifampin: May reduce atorvastatin plasma concentrations. Administer simultaneously with atorvastatin
  calcium tablets ( 7.2).
  Oral Contraceptives: May increase plasma levels of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol; consider this
  effect when selecting an oral contraceptive ( 7.3).
  Digoxin: May increase digoxin plasma levels; monitor patients appropriately ( 7.3).

                                  USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
  Pregnancy: May cause fetal harm ( 8.1).
  Lactation: Breastfeeding not recommended during treatment with atorvastatin calcium tablets ( 8.2).

See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA-approved patient labeling.
                                                                     Revised: 1/2026




FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION: CONTENTS*
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
  2.1 Important Dosage Information
  2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients
  2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH
  2.4 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH
  2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
  5.1 Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis
  5.2 Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy
  5.3 Hepatic Dysfunction
  5.4 Increases in HbA1c and Fasting Serum Glucose Levels
  5.5 Increased Risk of Hemorrhagic Stroke in Patients on atorvastatin calcium tablets
  80 mg with Recent Hemorrhagic Stroke
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
  6.1 Clinical Trials Experience
  6.2 Postmarketing Experience
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS
  7.1 Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis
  with atorvastatin calcium tablets
  7.2 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to atorvastatin calcium tablets
  7.3 Atorvastatin calcium tablets Effects on Other Drugs
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
  8.1 Pregnancy
  8.2 Lactation
  8.4 Pediatric Use
  8.5 Geriatric Use
  8.6 Renal Impairment
  8.7 Hepatic Impairment
10 OVERDOSAGE
11 DESCRIPTION
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
  12.1 Mechanism of Action
  12.2 Pharmacodynamics
  12.3 Pharmacokinetics
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY
  13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
14 CLINICAL STUDIES
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
* Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed.




FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION


1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
Atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated:
   To reduce the risk of:
      Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in
      adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without
      clinically evident CHD
      MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for
      CHD but without clinically evident CHD
      Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures,
      hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically
      evident CHD
   As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in:
      Adults with primary hyperlipidemia.
      Adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial
      hypercholesterolemia (HeFH).
   As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are
   unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older
   with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH).
   As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with:
      Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia
      Hypertriglyceridemia


2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

2.1 Important Dosage Information
   Take Atorvastatin calcium tablets orally once daily at any time of the day, with or
   without food.
   Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating
   Atorvastatin calcium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary.
   If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take the missed dose and resume with the
   next scheduled dose.

2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients
The recommended starting dosage of Atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg to 20 mg
once daily. The dosage once daily. Patients who require reduction in LDL-C greater than
45% may be started at 40 mg once daily.

2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older
with HeFH
The recommended starting dosage of Atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg once daily.
The dosage range is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily.

2.4 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older
with HoFH
The recommended starting dosage of Atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg to 20 mg
once daily. The dosage range is 10 mg to 80 mg once daily.

2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions
Concomitant use of Atorvastatin calcium tablets with the following drugs requires
dosage modification of Atorvastatin calcium tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (
5.1) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1)] .
Anti-Viral Medications
   In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir,
   fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed
   atorvastatin calcium tablets 20 mg once daily.
   In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets 40 mg once
   daily .

Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics
   In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium
   tablets 20 mg once daily.
For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of Atorvastatin calcium
tablets with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, see
Drug Interactions ( 7.1).


3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
Atorvastatin calcium tablets:
   10 mg of atorvastatin: White to off-white, film-coated, oval shaped tablets "ATO"
   debossed on one side and "10" on other side.
   20 mg of atorvastatin: White to off-white, film-coated, oval shaped tablets "ATO"
   debossed on one side and "20" on other side.
   40 mg of atorvastatin: White to off-white, film-coated, oval shaped tablets "ATO"
   debossed on one side and "40" on other side.
   80 mg of atorvastatin: White to off-white, film-coated, oval shaped tablets "ATO"
   debossed on one side and "80" on other side.


4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
   Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)]
   Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipients in atorvastatin calcium tablets.
   Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, erythema
   multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been
   reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2)].


5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

5.1 Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis
Atorvastatin calcium tablets may cause myopathy (muscle pain, tenderness, or
weakness associated with elevated creatine kinase [CK]) and rhabdomyolysis. Acute
kidney injury secondary to myoglobinuria and rare fatalities have occurred as a result of
rhabdomyolysis in patients treated with statins, including atorvastatin calcium tablets.
Risk Factors for Myopathy
Risk factors for myopathy include age 65 years or greater, uncontrolled hypothyroidism,
renal impairment, concomitant use with certain other drugs (including other lipid-
lowering therapies), and higher atorvastatin calcium tablets dosage [see Drug
Interactions ( 7.1) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5, 8.6)].
Steps to Prevent or Reduce the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis
Atorvastatin calcium tablets exposure may be increased by drug interactions due to
inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4) and/or transporters (e.g., breast
cancer resistant protein [BCRP], organic anion-transporting polypeptide
[OATP1B1/OATP1B3] and P-glycoprotein [P-gp]), resulting in an increased risk of
myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use of cyclosporine, gemfibrozil, tipranavir
plus ritonavir, or glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir with atorvastatin calcium tablets are not
recommended. Atorvastatin calcium tablets dosage modifications are recommended for
patients taking certain anti-viral, azole antifungals, or macrolide antibiotic medications
[see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5)] . Cases of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis have been
reported with atorvastatin coadministered with lipid modifying doses (>1 gram/day) of
niacin, fibrates, colchicine, and ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1)] .
Consider if the benefit of use of these products outweighs the increased risk of
myopathy and rhabdomyolysis [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1)] .
Concomitant intake of large quantities, more than 1.2 liters daily, of grapefruit juice is not
recommended in patients taking atorvastatin calcium tablets [see Drug Interactions (
7.1)].
Discontinue atorvastatin calcium tablets if markedly elevated CK levels occur or if
myopathy is either diagnosed or suspected. Muscle symptoms and CK elevations may
resolve if atorvastatin calcium tablets are discontinued. Temporarily discontinue
atorvastatin calcium tablets in patients experiencing an acute or serious condition at
high risk of developing renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis (e.g., sepsis; shock;
severe hypovolemia; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte
disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy).
Inform patients of the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when starting or increasing
the atorvastatin calcium tablets dosage. Instruct patients to promptly report any
unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness, particularly if accompanied by
malaise or fever.

5.2 Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy
There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an
autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use, including reports of recurrence when
the same or a different statin was administered. IMNM is characterized by proximal
muscle weakness and elevated serum creatine kinase that persists despite
discontinuation of statin treatment; positive anti-HMG CoA reductase antibody; muscle
biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy; and improvement with immunosuppressive
agents. Additional neuromuscular and serologic testing may be necessary. Treatment
with immunosuppressive agents may be required. Discontinue atorvastatin calcium
tablets if IMNM is suspected.

5.3 Hepatic Dysfunction
Increases in serum transaminases have been reported with use of atorvastatin calcium
tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1)]. In most cases, these changes appeared soon
after initiation, were transient, were not accompanied by symptoms, and resolved or
improved on continued therapy or after a brief interruption in therapy. Persistent
increases to more than three times the ULN in serum transaminases have occurred in
approximately 0.7% of patients receiving atorvastatin calcium tablets in clinical trials.
There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in
patients taking statins, including atorvastatin calcium tablets.
Patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and/or have a history of liver
disease may be at increased risk for hepatic injury​​ [see Use in Specific Populations (
8.7)].
Consider liver enzyme testing before atorvastatin calcium tablets initiation and when
clinically indicated thereafter. Atorvastatin calcium tablets are contraindicated in patients
with acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis​​ [see Contraindications ( 4)]. If
serious hepatic injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice
occurs, promptly discontinue atorvastatin calcium tablets.

5.4 Increases in HbA1c and Fasting Serum Glucose Levels
Increases in HbA1c and fasting serum glucose levels have been reported with statins,
including atorvastatin calcium tablets. Optimize lifestyle measures, including regular
exercise, maintaining a healthy body weight, and making healthy food choices.

5.5 Increased Risk of Hemorrhagic Stroke in Patients on atorvastatin calcium
tablets 80 mg with Recent Hemorrhagic Stroke
In a post-hoc analysis of the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol
Levels (SPARCL) trial where 2,365 adult patients, without CHD who had a stroke or TIA
within the preceding 6 months, were treated with atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg, a
higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke was seen in the atorvastatin calcium tablets 80
mg group compared to placebo (55, 2.3% atorvastatin calcium tablets vs. 33, 1.4%
placebo; HR: 1.68, 95% CI: 1.09, 2.59; p=0.0168). The incidence of fatal hemorrhagic
stroke was similar across treatment groups (17 vs. 18 for the atorvastatin and placebo
groups, respectively). The incidence of non-fatal hemorrhagic stroke was significantly
higher in the atorvastatin calcium tablets group (38, 1.6%) as compared to the placebo
group (16, 0.7%). Some baseline characteristics, including hemorrhagic and lacunar
stroke on study entry, were associated with a higher incidence of hemorrhagic stroke in
the atorvastatin calcium tablets group [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1)] . Consider the
risk/benefit of use of atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg in patients with recent
hemorrhagic stroke.


6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
The following important adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the
labeling:
   Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1)]
   Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)]
   Hepatic Dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)]
   Increases in HbA1c and Fasting Serum Glucose Levels [see Warnings and Precautions
   ( 5.4)]

6.1 Clinical Trials Experience
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse
reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to
rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in
practice.
In the atorvastatin calcium tablets placebo-controlled clinical trial database of 16,066
patients (8755 atorvastatin calcium tablets vs. 7,311 placebo; age range 10–93 years,
39% female, 91% White, 3% Black or African American, 2% Asian, 4% other) with a
median treatment duration of 53 weeks, The most common adverse reactions in
patients treated with atorvastatin calcium tablets that led to treatment discontinuation
and occurred at a rate greater than placebo were: myalgia (0.7%), diarrhea (0.5%),
nausea (0.4%), alanine aminotransferase increase (0.4%), and hepatic enzyme increase
(0.4%).
Table 1 summarizes adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2% and at a rate greater than
placebo in patients treated with atorvastatin calcium tablets (n=8,755), from seventeen
placebo-controlled trials.
Table 1. Adverse Reactions Occurring in >2% in Patients atorvastatin calcium
tablets Treated with any Dose and Greater than Placebo

                    %              %20 %40             % Any
                          %10 mg              %80 mg
Adverse Reaction Placebo           mg    mg            dose
                          N=3,908             N=4,055
                  N=7,311         N=188 N=604         N=8,755
Nasopharyngitis     8.2     12.9    5.3  7.0    4.2     8.3
Arthralgia          6.5      8.9   11.7  10.6   4.3     6.9
Diarrhea            6.3      7.3    6.4  14.1   5.2     6.8
Pain in extremity   5.9      8.5    3.7  9.3    3.1     6.0
Urinary tract
                    5.6      6.9    6.4  8.0    4.1     5.7
infection
Dyspepsia           4.3      5.9    3.2  6.0    3.3     4.7
Nausea              3.5      3.7    3.7  7.1    3.8     4.0
Musculoskeletal
                    3.6      5.2    3.2  5.1    2.3     3.8
pain
Muscle Spasms       3.0      4.6    4.8  5.1    2.4     3.6
Myalgia             3.1      3.6    5.9  8.4    2.7     3.5
Insomnia            2.9      2.8    1.1  5.3    2.8     3.0
Pharyngolaryngeal
                    2.1      3.9    1.6  2.8    0.7     2.3
pain

Other adverse reactions reported in placebo-controlled trials include:
Body as a Whole: malaise, pyrexia
Digestive System: abdominal discomfort, eructation, flatulence, hepatitis, cholestasis
Musculoskeletal System: musculoskeletal pain, muscle fatigue, neck pain, joint swelling
Metabolic and Nutritional System: transaminases increase, liver function test abnormal,
blood alkaline phosphatase increase, creatine phosphokinase increase, hyperglycemia
Nervous System: nightmare;
Respiratory System: epistaxis;
Skin and Appendages: urticaria;
Special Senses: vision blurred, tinnitus;
Urogenital System: white blood cells urine positive.
Elevations in Liver Enzyme Tests
Persistent elevations in serum transaminases, defined as more than 3 times the ULN
and occurring on 2 or more occasions, occurred in 0.7% of patients who received
atorvastatin calcium tablets in clinical trials. The incidence of these abnormalities was
0.2%, 0.2%, 0.6%, and 2.3% for 10, 20, 40, and 80 mg, respectively.
One patient in clinical trials developed jaundice. Increases in liver enzyme tests in other
patients were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms. Upon
dose reduction, drug interruption, or discontinuation, transaminase levels returned to or
near pretreatment levels without sequelae. Eighteen of 30 patients with persistent liver
enzyme elevations continued treatment with a reduced dose of atorvastatin calcium
tablets.
Treating to New Targets Study (TNT)
In TNT, [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)] 10,001 patients (age range 29–78 years, 19%
female; 94% - White, 3% Black or African American, 1% Asian, 2% other) with clinically
evident CHD were treated with atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg daily (n=5006) or
atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg daily (n=4995). In the high-dose atorvastatin calcium
tablets group, there were more patients with serious adverse reactions (1.8%) and
discontinuations due to adverse reactions (9.9%) as compared to the low-dose group
(1.4%; 8.1%, respectively) during a median follow-up of 4.9 years. Persistent
transaminase elevations (≥ 3 x ULN twice within 4–10 days) occurred in 1.3% of
 individuals with atorvastatin 80 mg and in 0.2% of individuals with atorvastatin 10 mg.
Elevations of CK (≥ 10 x ULN) were higher in the high-dose atorvastatin group (0.3%)
compared to the low-dose atorvastatin group (0.1%).
Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL)
In SPARCL, 4,731 patients (age range 21–92 years, 40% female; 93% White, 3%
Black or African American, 1% Asian, 3% other) without clinically evident CHD but with a
stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) within the previous 6 months were treated with
atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg (n=2365) or placebo (n=2366) for a median follow-
up of 4.9 years. There was a higher incidence of persistent hepatic transaminase
elevations (≥ 3 x ULN twice within 4–10 days) in the atorvastatin group (0.9%)
compared to placebo (0.1%). Elevations of CK (> 10 x ULN) were rare, but were higher
in the atorvastatin group (0.1%) compared to placebo (0.0%). Diabetes was reported as
an adverse reaction in (6.1%) of subjects in the atorvastatin group and 3.8% of subjects
in the placebo group.
In a post-hoc analysis, atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg reduced the incidence of
ischemic stroke (9.2% vs. 11.6%) and increased the incidence of hemorrhagic stroke
(2.3% vs. 1.4%) compared to placebo. The incidence of fatal hemorrhagic stroke was
similar between groups (17 atorvastatin calcium tablets vs. 18 placebo). The incidence of
non-fatal hemorrhagic strokes was significantly greater in the atorvastatin group (38
non-fatal hemorrhagic strokes) as compared to the placebo group (16 non-fatal
hemorrhagic strokes). Patients who entered the trial with a hemorrhagic stroke
appeared to be at increased risk for hemorrhagic stroke (16% atorvastatin calcium
tablets vs. (4% placebo).
Adverse Reactions from Clinical Studies of atorvastatin calcium tablets in Pediatric
Patients with HeFH
In a 26-week controlled study in pediatric patients with HeFH (ages 10 years to 17
years) (n=140, 31% female; 92% White,, 1.6% Black or African American, 1.6% Asians,
4.8% other), the safety and tolerability profile of atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 to 20 mg
daily, as an adjunct to diet to reduce total cholesterol, LDL-C, and apo B levels, was
generally similar to that of placebo [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4) and Clinical
Studies ( 14.6)] .
6.2 Postmarketing Experience
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of
atorvastatin calcium tablets. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a
population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency
or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure.
Gastrointestinal Disorders: pancreatitis
General Disorders: fatigue
Hepatobiliary Disorders: fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure
Immune System Disorders: anaphylaxis
Injury: tendon rupture
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: rhabdomyolysis, myositis.
There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy associated
with statin use.
Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, peripheral neuropathy.
There have been rare reports of cognitive impairment (e.g., memory loss, forgetfulness,
amnesia, memory impairment, confusion) associated with the use of all statins. Cognitive
impairment was generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, with
variable times to symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3
weeks). There have been rare reports of new-onset or exacerbation of myasthenia
gravis, including ocular myasthenia, and reports of recurrence when the same or a
different statin was administered.
Psychiatric Disorders: depression
Respiratory Disorders: interstitial lung disease
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: angioneurotic edema, bullous rashes (including
erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis)


7 DRUG INTERACTIONS

7.1 Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and
Rhabdomyolysis with atorvastatin calcium tablets
Atorvastatin calcium tablets are a substrate of CYP3A4 and transporters (e.g.,
OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, or BCRP). Atorvastatin calcium tablets plasma levels can be
significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and
transporters. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin
calcium tablets and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used
concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and
Precautions ( 5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].
Table 2: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and
Rhabdomyolysis with atorvastatin calcium tablets
Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil
              Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant
              administration of atorvastatin calcium tablets and cyclosporine, an inhibitor
      Clinicalof CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. Gemfibrozil
     Impact: may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and
              rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or
              gemfibrozil with atorvastatin calcium tablets.
              Concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin calcium
Intervention:
              tablets are not recommended.
Anti-Viral Medications
              Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant
              administration of atorvastatin calcium tablets with many anti-viral
              medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g.,
      Clinical
              BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology
     Impact:
              ( 12.3)]. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with
              concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin calcium
              tablets.

                Concomitant use of tipranavir plus ritonavir or glecaprevir plus
                pibrentasvir with atorvastatin calcium tablets are not recommended.
                In patients taking lopinavir plus ritonavir, or simeprevir, consider the
                risk/benefit of concomitant use with atorvastatin.
                In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir,
                fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or
                letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets 20 mg.
Intervention:
                In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets
                40 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5)].
                Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of ledipasvir plus
                sofosbuvir with atorvastatin calcium tablets.
                Monitor all patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly
                during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either
                drug.

              Tipranavir plus ritonavir, glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir, lopinavir plus
              ritonavir, simeprevir, saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir,
   Examples:
              fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir,
              letermovir, nelfinavir, and ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir.
Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics
              Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant
      Clinicaladministration of atorvastatin calcium tablets with select azole antifungals
     Impact: or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters
              [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].
              In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed
              atorvastatin calcium tablets 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5)].
              Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of other azole antifungals or
Intervention:
              macrolide antibiotics with atorvastatin calcium tablets. Monitor all patients
              for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of
              therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug.
              Erythromycin, clarithromycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole,
   Examples:
  Examples:
              and voriconazole.
Niacin
              Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with
      Clinical
              concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin (≥1 gram/day niacin)
     Impact:
              with atorvastatin calcium tablets.
              Consider if the benefit of using lipid modifying dosages of niacin
              concomitantly with atorvastatin calcium tablets outweighs the increased
Intervention: risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided,
              monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during
              initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug.
Fibrates (other than Gemfibrozil)
              Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and
      Clinical
              rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with
     Impact:
              atorvastatin calcium tablets.
              Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with atorvastatin
              calcium tablets outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and
Intervention: rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs
              and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and
              during upward dose titration of either drug.
Colchicine
      ClinicalCases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with
     Impact: concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin calcium tablets.
              Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin
              calcium tablets. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs
Intervention:
              and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and
              during upward dose titration of either drug.
Grapefruit Juice
              Grapefruit juice consumption, especially excessive consumption, more than
      Clinical
              1.2 liters/daily, can raise the plasma levels of atorvastatin and may increase
     Impact:
              the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis.
              Avoid intake of large quantities of grapefruit juice, more than 1.2 liters daily,
Intervention:
              when taking atorvastatin calcium tablets.

7.2 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to atorvastatin calcium
tablets
Table 3 presents drug interactions that may decrease exposure to atorvastatin calcium
tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them.

   Table 3: Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to atorvastatin
                               calcium tablets
Rifampin
              Concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium tablets with rifampin, an
              inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and inhibitor of OATP1B1, can lead to
              variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. Due to the
      Clinical
              dual interaction mechanism of rifampin, delayed administration of
     Impact:
              atorvastatin calcium tablets after administration of rifampin has been
              associated with a significant reduction in atorvastatin plasma
             concentrations.
Intervention:Administer atorvastatin calcium tablets and rifampin simultaneously.

7.3 Atorvastatin calcium tablets Effects on Other Drugs
Table 4 presents atorvastatin calcium tablets effect on other drugs and instructions for
preventing or managing them.

         Table 4: Atorvastatin calcium tablets Effects on Other Drugs
Oral Contraceptives
              Co-administration of atorvastatin calcium tablets and an oral contraceptive
      Clinical
              increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol
     Impact:
              [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].
              Consider this when selecting an oral contraceptive for patients taking
Intervention:
              atorvastatin calcium tablets.
Digoxin
              When multiple doses of atorvastatin calcium tablets and digoxin were co-
      Clinical
              administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see
     Impact:
              Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].
Intervention:Monitor patients taking digoxin appropriately.


8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS

8.1 Pregnancy
Risk Summary
Discontinue atorvastatin calcium tablets when pregnancy is recognized. Alternatively,
consider the ongoing therapeutic needs of the individual patient. Atorvastatin calcium
tablets decreases synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other biologically active
substances derived from cholesterol; therefore, atorvastatin calcium tablets may cause
fetal harm when administered to pregnant patients based on the mechanism of action
[see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1)]. In addition, treatment of hyperlipidemia is not
generally necessary during pregnancy. Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and the
discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the
outcome of long-term therapy of primary hyperlipidemia for most patients.
Available data from case series and prospective and retrospective observational cohort
studies over decades of use with statins in pregnant women have not identified a drug-
associated risk of major congenital malformations. Published data from prospective and
retrospective observational cohort studies with atorvastatin calcium tablets use in
pregnant women are insufficient to determine if there is a drug-associated risk of
miscarriage (see Data). In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental
effects were observed in pregnant rats or rabbits orally administered atorvastatin at
doses that resulted in up to 30 and 20 times, respectively, the human exposure at the
maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 80 mg, based on body surface area
(mg/m 2). In rats administered atorvastatin during gestation and lactation, decreased
postnatal growth and development delay were observed at doses ≥ 6 times the MRHD
(see Data).
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated
population is unknown. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of
major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2-4% and 15-
20%, respectively.
Data
Human Data
A Medicaid cohort linkage study of 1,152 statin-exposed pregnant women compared to
886,996 controls did not find a significant teratogenic effect from maternal use of
statins in the first trimester of pregnancy, after adjusting for potential confounders –
including maternal age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity, and alcohol and tobacco
use – using propensity score-based methods. The relative risk of congenital
malformations between the group with statin use and the group with no statin use in the
first trimester was 1.07 (95% confidence interval 0.85 to 1.37) after controlling for
confounders, particularly pre-existing diabetes mellitus. There were also no statistically
significant increases in any of the organ-specific malformations assessed after
accounting for confounders. In the majority of pregnancies, statin treatment was
initiated prior to pregnancy and was discontinued at some point in the first trimester
when pregnancy was identified. Study limitations include reliance on physician coding to
define the presence of a malformation, lack of control for certain confounders such as
body mass index, use of prescription dispensing as verification for the use of a statin,
and lack of information on non-live births.
Animal Data
Atorvastatin was administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at oral
doses up to 300 mg/kg/day and 100 mg/kg/day, respectively. Atorvastatin was not
teratogenic in rats at doses up to 300 mg/kg/day or in rabbits at doses up to 100
mg/kg/day. These doses resulted in multiples of about 30 times (rat) or 20 times (rabbit)
the human exposure at the MRHD based on surface area (mg/m 2). In rats, the
maternally toxic dose of 300 mg/kg resulted in increased post-implantation loss and
decreased fetal body weight. At the maternally toxic doses of 50 and 100 mg/kg/day in
rabbits, there was increased post-implantation loss, and at 100 mg/kg/day fetal body
weights were decreased.
In a study in pregnant rats administered 20, 100, or 225 mg/kg/day from gestation day
7 through to lactation day 20 (weaning), there was decreased survival at birth, postnatal
day 4, weaning, and post-weaning in pups of mothers dosed with 225 mg/kg/day, a
dose at which maternal toxicity was observed. Pup body weight was decreased through
postnatal day 21 at 100 mg/kg/day, and through postnatal day 91 at 225 mg/kg/day.
Pup development was delayed (rotarod performance at 100 mg/kg/day and acoustic
startle at 225 mg/kg/day; pinnae detachment and eye-opening at 225 mg/kg/day). These
doses correspond to 6 times (100 mg/kg) and 22 times (225 mg/kg) the human
exposure at the MRHD, based on AUC.
Atorvastatin crosses the rat placenta and reaches a level in fetal liver equivalent to that
of maternal plasma.

8.2 Lactation
Risk Summary
There is no information about the presence of atorvastatin in human milk, the effects of
the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production. However,
it has been shown that another drug in this class passes into human milk. Studies in rats
have shown that atorvastatin and/or its metabolites are present in the breast milk of
lactating rats. When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely that the drug will be
present in human milk (see Data). Statins, including atorvastatin calcium tablets,
decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active
substances derived from cholesterol and may cause harm to the breastfed infant.
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed infant, based on
the mechanism of action, advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during
treatment with atorvastatin calcium tablets [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1), Clinical
Pharmacology ( 12.1)] .
Data
Following a single oral administration of 10 mg/kg of radioactive atorvastatin to lactating
rats, the concentration of total radioactivity was determined. Atorvastatin and/or its
metabolites were measured in the breast milk and pup plasma at a 2:1 ratio
(milk:plasma).

8.4 Pediatric Use
The safety and effectiveness of atorvastatin calcium tablets as an adjunct to diet to
reduce LDL-C have been established pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with
HeFH. Use of atorvastatin calcium tablets for this indication is based on a double-blind,
placebo-controlled clinical trial in 187 pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with
HeFH. In this limited controlled trial, there was no significant effect on growth or sexual
maturation in the males or females, or on menstrual cycle length in females.
The safety and effectiveness of atorvastatin calcium tablets as an adjunct to other LDL-
C-lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C have been established pediatric patients 10 years
of age and older with HoFH. Use of atorvastatin calcium tablets for this indication is
based on a trial without a concurrent control group in 8 pediatric patients 10 years of
age and older with HoFH [see Clinical Studies ( 14)] .
The safety and effectiveness of atorvastatin calcium tablets have not been established in
pediatric patients younger than 10 years of age with HeFH or HoFH, or in pediatric
patients with other types of hyperlipidemia (other than HeFH or HoFH).

8.5 Geriatric Use
Of the total number of atorvastatin calcium tablets-treated patients in clinical trials,
15,813 (40%) were ≥65 years old and 2,800 (7%) were ≥75 years old. No overall
differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and
younger patients.
Advanced age (≥65 years) is a risk factor for atorvastatin calcium tablets-associated
myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious,
recognizing the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and
of concomitant disease or other drug therapy and the higher risk of myopathy. Monitor
geriatric patients receiving atorvastatin calcium tablets for the increased risk of
myopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] .
8.6 Renal Impairment
Renal impairment is a risk factor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Monitor all patients
with renal impairment for development of myopathy. Renal impairment does not affect
the plasma concentrations of atorvastatin calcium tablets, therefore there is no dosage
adjustment in patients with renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) and
Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)].

8.7 Hepatic Impairment
In patients with chronic alcoholic liver disease, plasma concentrations of atorvastatin
calcium tablets are markedly increased. Cmax and AUC are each 4-fold greater in
patients with Childs-Pugh A disease. Cmax and AUC are approximately 16-fold and 11-
fold increased, respectively, in patients with Childs-Pugh B disease. Atorvastatin calcium
tablets are contraindicated in patients with acute liver failure or decompensated
cirrhosis [see Contraindications ( 4)] .


10 OVERDOSAGE
No specific antidotes for atorvastatin calcium tablets are known. Contact Poison Control
(1-800-222-1222) for latest recommendations. Due to extensive drug binding to plasma
proteins, hemodialysis is not expected to significantly enhance atorvastatin calcium
clearance.


11 DESCRIPTION
Atorvastatin is an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA)
reductase.
Atorvastatin calcium is [R-(R*, R*)]-2-(4-fluorophenyl)-ß, δ-dihydroxy-5-(1-methylethyl)-
3-phenyl-4-[(phenylamino)carbonyl]-1H- pyrrole-1-heptanoic acid, calcium salt (2:1)
trihydrate. The empirical formula of atorvastatin calcium is C 66H 68CaF 2N 4O 10.3H
2O and its molecular weight is 1209.42. Its structural formula is:
Atorvastatin calcium is a white to off-white powder that is insoluble in aqueous solutions
of pH 4 and below. Atorvastatin calcium is soluble to freely soluble in methanol, slightly
soluble in alcohol, insoluble to very slightly soluble in distilled water, in pH 7.4 phosphate
buffer and in acetonitrile.
Atorvastatin calcium tablets, USP for oral use contain atorvastatin 10 mg, 20 mg, 40
mg, or 80 mg (equivalent to 10.359 mg, 20.718 mg, 41.436 mg, or 82.872 mg
atorvastatin calcium trihydrate) and the following inactive ingredients: Croscarmellose
sodium, NF; Hydroxy propyl cellulose, NF; , Lactose monohydrate, NF; Magnesium
stearate, NF; , Microcrystalline cellulose, NF; Polysorbate 80, NF; Precipitated calcium
carbonate, NF; Hypromellose; Macrogol; Talc and Titanium dioxide.


12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY

12.1 Mechanism of Action
Atorvastatin calcium is a selective, competitive inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, the rate-
limiting enzyme that converts 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A to mevalonate, a
precursor of sterols, including cholesterol. In animal models, atorvastatin calcium lowers
plasma cholesterol and lipoprotein levels by inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase and
cholesterol synthesis in the liver and by increasing the number of hepatic LDL receptors
on the cell surface to enhance uptake and catabolism of LDL; atorvastatin calcium also
reduces LDL production and the number of LDL particles.

12.2 Pharmacodynamics
Atorvastatin calcium, as well as some of its metabolites, are pharmacologically active in
humans. The liver is the primary site of action and the principal site of cholesterol
synthesis and LDL clearance. Drug dosage, rather than systemic drug concentration,
correlates better with LDL-C reduction. Individualization of drug dosage should be based
on therapeutic response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2)] .
12.3 Pharmacokinetics
Absorption
Atorvastatin calcium tablets are rapidly absorbed after oral administration; maximum
plasma concentrations occur within 1 to 2 hours. Extent of absorption increases in
proportion to atorvastatin calcium tablets dose. The absolute bioavailability of
atorvastatin (parent drug) is approximately 14% and the systemic availability of HMG-
CoA reductase inhibitory activity is approximately 30%. The low systemic availability is
attributed to presystemic clearance in gastrointestinal mucosa and/or hepatic first-pass
metabolism. Although food decreases the rate and extent of drug absorption by
approximately 25% and 9%, respectively, as assessed by Cmax and AUC, LDL-C
reduction is similar whether atorvastatin calcium tablets are given with or without food.
Plasma atorvastatin calcium concentrations are lower (approximately 30% for Cmax and
AUC) following evening drug administration compared with morning. However, LDL-C
reduction is the same regardless of the time of day of drug administration.
Distribution
Mean volume of distribution of atorvastatin calcium is approximately 381 liters.
Atorvastatin calcium is ≥ 98% bound to plasma proteins. A blood/plasma ratio of
approximately 0.25 indicates poor drug penetration into red blood cells.
Elimination
Metabolism
Atorvastatin calcium is extensively metabolized to ortho- and parahydroxylated
derivatives and various beta-oxidation products. In vitro inhibition of HMG-CoA
reductase by ortho- and parahydroxylated metabolites is equivalent to that of
atorvastatin calcium. Approximately 70% of circulating inhibitory activity for HMG-CoA
reductase is attributed to active metabolites. In vitrostudies suggest the importance of
atorvastatin calcium metabolism by cytochrome P450 3A4, consistent with increased
plasma concentrations of atorvastatin calcium in humans following co-administration
with erythromycin, a known inhibitor of this isozyme [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1)] . In
animals, the ortho-hydroxy metabolite undergoes further glucuronidation.
Excretion
Atorvastatin calcium and its metabolites are eliminated primarily in bile following hepatic
and/or extra-hepatic metabolism; however, the drug does not appear to undergo
enterohepatic recirculation. Mean plasma elimination half-life of atorvastatin calcium in
humans is approximately 14 hours, but the half-life of inhibitory activity for HMG-CoA
reductase is 20 to 30 hours due to the contribution of active metabolites. Less than 2%
of a dose of atorvastatin calcium is recovered in urine following oral administration.
Specific Populations
Geriatric:
Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin calcium are higher (approximately 40% for Cmax
and 30% for AUC) in healthy elderly subjects (age ≥ 65 years) than in young adults.
Pediatric:
Apparent oral clearance of atorvastatin in pediatric subjects appeared similar to that of
adults when scaled allometrically by body weight as the body weight was the only
significant covariate in atorvastatin population PK model with data including pediatric
HeFH patients (ages 10 years to 17 years of age, n=29) in an open-label, 8-week study.
Gender:
Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin calcium tablets in females differ from those in
males (approximately 20% higher for Cmax and 10% lower for AUC); however, there is
no clinically significant difference in LDL-C reduction with atorvastatin calcium between
males and females.
Renal Impairment:
Renal disease has no influence on the plasma concentrations or LDL-C reduction of
atorvastatin calcium [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6)] .
While studies have not been conducted in patients with end-stage renal disease,
hemodialysis is not expected to significantly enhance clearance of Atorvastatin calcium
since the drug is extensively bound to plasma proteins.
Hepatic Impairment:
In patients with chronic alcoholic liver disease, plasma concentrations of atorvastatin
calcium are markedly increased. Cmax and AUC are each 4-fold greater in patients with
Childs-Pugh A disease. Cmax and AUC are approximately 16-fold and 11-fold increased,
respectively, in patients with Childs-Pugh B disease [see Use in Specific Populations (
8.7)] .
Drug Interactions
Atorvastatin is a substrate of the hepatic transporters, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3
transporter. Metabolites of atorvastatin are substrates of OATP1B1. Atorvastatin is also
identified as a substrate of the efflux transporter BCRP, which may limit the intestinal
absorption and biliary clearance of atorvastatin.

        Table 5: Effect of Co-administered Drugs on the
               Pharmacokinetics of Atorvastatin​​
    Co-administered drug and
                                               Atorvastatin
        dosage regimen
                                       Dosage     Ratio of Ratio of
                                         (mg)      AUC & Cmax &
#Cyclosporine 5.2 mg/kg/day,          10 mg QD
                                     afor 28 days   8.69    10.66
stable dose
#Tipranavir 500 mg BID b/ritonavir
                                      10 mg SD c      9.36      8.58
200 mg BID b, 7 days
#Glecaprevir 400 mg QD                 10 mg QD
a/pibrentasvir 120 mg QD a, 7 days    afor 7 days     8.28     22.00
#Telaprevir 750 mg q8h f, 10 days     20 mg SD c      7.88     10.60
#, ‡ Saquinavir 400 mg BID             40 mg QD
b/ritonavir 400 mg BID b, 15 days     afor 4 days     3.93      4.31
#Elbasvir 50 mg QD a/grazoprevir
                                      10 mg SD c      1.94      4.34
200 mg QD a, 13 days
#                        a                       c
#Simeprevir 150 mg QD a, 10 days        40 mg SD c     2.12      1.70
#Clarithromycin 500 mg BID b, 9          80 mg QD
                                        a              4.54      5.38
days                                      for 8 days
#Darunavir 300 mg BID b/ritonavir        10 mg QD
               b                        a              3.45      2.25
100 mg BID , 9 days                       for 4 days
#Itraconazole 200 mg QD a, 4 days 40 mg SD c           3.32      1.20
#Letermovir 480 mg QD a, 10 days 20 mg SD c            3.29      2.17
#Fosamprenavir 700 mg BID                10 mg QD
b/ritonavir 100 mg BID b, 14 days       afor 4 days    2.53      2.84
#Fosamprenavir 1400 mg BID b, 14 10 mg QD
                                        afor 4 days    2.30      4.04
days
#Nelfinavir 1250 mg BID b, 14 days       10 mg QD
                                       afor 28 days    1.74      2.22
#Grapefruit Juice, 240 mL QD a,*        40 mg SD c     1.37      1.16
                        a
Diltiazem 240 mg QD , 28 days           40 mg SD   c   1.51      1.00
                             e
Erythromycin 500 mg QID , 7 days 10 mg SD          c   1.33      1.38
Amlodipine 10 mg, single dose           80 mg SD   c   1.18      0.91
                                         10 mg QD
Cimetidine 300 mg QID e, 2 weeks a                     1.00      0.89
                                        for 2 weeks
                                         40 mg QD
Colestipol 10 g BID b, 24 weeks        afor 8 weeks     NA      0.74 **
                                         10 mg QD
MaaloxTC ®30 mL QID e, 17 days         afor 15 days    0.66      0.67
                                       10 mg for 3
Efavirenz 600 mg QD a, 14 days                         0.59      1.01
                                            days
#Rifampin 600 mg QD a, 7 days
                                        40 mg SD c     1.12      2.90
(co-administered) †
#Rifampin 600 mg QD a, 5 days
                                        40 mg SD c     0.20      0.60
(doses separated) †
#Gemfibrozil 600 mg BID b, 7 days       40 mg SD c     1.35      1.00
#Fenofibrate 160 mg QD a, 7 days        40 mg SD   c   1.03      1.02
                          d
Boceprevir 800 mg TID , 7 days          40 mg SD   c   2.32      2.66
& Represents      ratio of treatments (co-administered drug plus
atorvastatin vs. atorvastatin alone).
# See Sections 5.1 and 7 for clinical significance.
* Greater increases in AUC (ratio of AUC up to 2.5) and/or Cmax (ratio
of Cmax up to 1.71) have been reported with excessive grapefruit
consumption (≥ 750 mL - 1.2 liters per day).
** Ratio based on a single sample taken 8-16 h post dose.
† Due to the dual interaction mechanism of rifampin, simultaneous co-
administration of atorvastatin with rifampin is recommended, as
delayed administration of atorvastatin after administration of rifampin
has been associated with a signiﬁcant reduction in atorvastatin plasma
concentrations.
‡ The dose of saquinavir plus ritonavir in this study is not the clinically
used dose. The increase in atorvastatin exposure when used clinically
is likely to be higher than what was observed in this study. Therefore,
caution should be applied and the lowest dose necessary should be
used.
aOnce daily
b Twice daily
cSingle dosage
dThree times daily
eFour times daily
fEvery 8 hours


  Table 6: Effect of Atorvastatin on the Pharmacokinetics of
                     Co-administered Drugs
Atorvastatin      Co-administered drug and dosage regimen
                                               Ratio Ratio of
               Drug/Dosage (mg)
                                              of AUC Cmax
80 mg QD                             c
afor 15 days Antipyrine, 600 mg SD                     1.03      0.89
80 mg QD     #Digoxin 0.25 mg QD a, 20 days
afor 10 days                                           1.15      1.20
             Oral contraceptive QD a, 2 months
40 mg QD        norethindrone 1 mg
afor 22 days                                           1.28     1.23
                ethinyl estradiol 35 μg                1.19     ​1.30
              Tipranavir 500 mg BIDb/ritonavir 200
10 mg, SD c                                            1.08      0.96
              mg BID b, 7 days
10 mg QD      Fosamprenavir 1400 mg BID b, 14
afor 4 days                                            0.73      0.82
              days
10 mg QD      Fosamprenavir 700 mg BID
afor 4 days   b/ritonavir 100 mg BID b, 14 days        0.99      0.94
# See Section 7 for clinical significance.
a Once daily
b Twice daily
c Single dosage



Atorvastatin calcium tablets had no clinically significant effect on prothrombin time when
administered to patients receiving chronic warfarin treatment.


13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY

13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
In a 2-year carcinogenicity study in rats at dose levels of 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg/day, 2
rare tumors were found in muscle in high-dose females: in one, there was a
rhabdomyosarcoma and, in another, there was a fibrosarcoma. This dose represents a
plasma AUC (0-24) value of approximately 16 times the mean human plasma drug
exposure after an 80 mg oral dose.
A 2-year carcinogenicity study in mice given 100, 200, or 400 mg/kg/day resulted in a
significant increase in liver adenomas in high-dose males and liver carcinomas in high-
dose females. These findings occurred at plasma AUC (0–24) values of approximately 6
times the mean human plasma drug exposure after an 80 mg oral dose.
In vitro,atorvastatin was not mutagenic or clastogenic in the following tests with and
without metabolic activation: the Ames test with Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia
coli, the HGPRT forward mutation assay in Chinese hamster lung cells, and the
chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese hamster lung cells. Atorvastatin was negative
in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test.
In female rats, atorvastatin at doses up to 225 mg/kg (56 times the human exposure)
did not cause adverse effects on fertility. Studies in male rats performed at doses up to
175 mg/kg (15 times the human exposure) produced no changes in fertility. There was
aplasia and aspermia in the epididymis of 2 of 10 rats treated with 100 mg/kg/day of
atorvastatin for 3 months (16 times the human AUC at the 80 mg dose); testis weights
were significantly lower at 30 and 100 mg/kg and epididymal weight was lower at 100
mg/kg. Male rats given 100 mg/kg/day for 11 weeks prior to mating had decreased
sperm motility, spermatid head concentration, and increased abnormal sperm.
Atorvastatin caused no adverse effects on semen parameters, or reproductive organ
histopathology in dogs given doses of 10, 40, or 120 mg/kg for 2 years.


14 CLINICAL STUDIES
Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease
In the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial (ASCOT), the effect of atorvastatin
calcium tablets on fatal and non-fatal coronary heart disease was assessed in 10,305
patients with hypertension, 40–80 years of age (mean of 63 years, 19% female; 95%
White, 3% Black or African American, 1% South Asian, 1% other), without a previous
myocardial infarction and with total cholesterol (TC) levels ≤251 mg/dL. Additionally, all
patients had at least 3 of the following cardiovascular risk factors: male gender (81%),
age >55 years (85%), smoking (33%), diabetes (24%), history of CHD in a first-degree
relative (26%), TC:HDL >6 (14%), peripheral vascular disease (5%), left ventricular
hypertrophy (14%), prior cerebrovascular event (10%), specific ECG abnormality (14%),
proteinuria/albuminuria (62%). In this double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, patients were
treated with anti-hypertensive therapy (goal BP <140/90 mm Hg for patients without
diabetes; <130/80 mm Hg for patients with diabetes) and allocated to either atorvastatin
calcium tablets 10 mg daily (n=5,168) or placebo (n=5,137), using a covariate adaptive
method which took into account the distribution of nine baseline characteristics of
patients already enrolled and minimized the imbalance of those characteristics across
the groups. Patients were followed for a median duration of 3.3 years.
The effect of 10 mg/day of atorvastatin calcium tablets on lipid levels was similar to that
seen in previous clinical trials.
Atorvastatin calcium tablets significantly reduced the rate of coronary events [either
fatal coronary heart disease (46 events in the placebo group vs. 40 events in the
atorvastatin calcium tablets group) or non-fatal MI (108 events in the placebo group vs.
60 events in the atorvastatin calcium tablets group)] with a relative risk reduction of 36%
[(based on incidences of 1.9% for atorvastatin calcium tablets vs. 3.0% for placebo),
p=0.0005 (see Figure 1)]. The risk reduction was consistent regardless of age, smoking
status, obesity, or presence of renal dysfunction. The effect of atorvastatin calcium
tablets was seen regardless of baseline LDL levels.
Figure 1: Effect of atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg/day on Cumulative
Incidence of Non-Fatal Myocardial Infarction or Coronary Heart Disease
Death (in ASCOT-LLA)




Atorvastatin calcium tablets also significantly decreased the relative risk for
revascularization procedures by 42% (incidences of 1.4% for atorvastatin calcium
tablets and 2.5% for placebo). Although the reduction of fatal and non-fatal strokes did
not reach a pre-defined significance level (p=0.01), a favorable trend was observed with
a 26% relative risk reduction (incidences of 1.7% for atorvastatin calcium tablets and
2.3% for placebo). There was no significant difference between the treatment groups
for death due to cardiovascular causes (p=0.51) or noncardiovascular causes (p=0.17).
In the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study (CARDS), the effect of atorvastatin
calcium tablets on cardiovascular disease (CVD) endpoints was assessed in 2838
subjects (94% White, 2% Black or African American, 2% South Asian, 1% other; 68%
male), ages 40–75 with type 2 diabetes based on WHO criteria, without prior history of
cardiovascular disease and with LDL ≤160 mg/dL and triglycerides (TG) ≤ 600 mg/dL. In
addition to diabetes, subjects had 1 or more of the following risk factors: current
smoking (23%), hypertension (80%), retinopathy (30%), or microalbuminuria (9%) or
macroalbuminuria (3%). No subjects on hemodialysis were enrolled in the trial. In this
multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial, subjects were randomly
allocated to either atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg daily (1429) or placebo (1411) in a
1:1 ratio and were followed for a median duration of 3.9 years. The primary endpoint
was the occurrence of any of the major cardiovascular events: myocardial infarction,
acute CHD death, unstable angina, coronary revascularization, or stroke. The primary
analysis was the time to first occurrence of the primary endpoint.
Baseline characteristics of subjects were: mean age of 62 years, mean HbA1c
7.7%; median LDL-C 120 mg/dL; median TC 207 mg/dL; median TG 151 mg/dL; median
HDL-C 52 mg/dL.
The effect of atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg/day on lipid levels was similar to that
seen in previous clinical trials.
Atorvastatin calcium tablets significantly reduced the rate of major cardiovascular events
(primary endpoint events) (83 events in the atorvastatin calcium tablets group vs. 127
events in the placebo group) with a relative risk reduction of 37%, HR 0.63, 95% CI
(0.48, 0.83) (p=0.001) (see Figure 2). An effect of atorvastatin calcium tablets was seen
regardless of age, sex, or baseline lipid levels.
Atorvastatin calcium tablets significantly reduced the risk of stroke by 48% (21 events in
the atorvastatin calcium tablets group vs. 39 events in the placebo group), HR 0.52,
95% CI (0.31, 0.89) (p=0.016) and reduced the risk of MI by 42% (38 events in the
atorvastatin calcium tablets group vs. 64 events in the placebo group), HR 0.58, 95.1%
CI (0.39, 0.86) (p=0.007). There was no significant difference between the treatment
groups for angina, revascularization procedures, and acute CHD death.
There were 61 deaths in the atorvastatin calcium tablets group vs. 82 deaths in the
placebo group (HR 0.73, p=0.059).
Figure 2: Effect of atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg/day on Time to
Occurrence of Major Cardiovascular Event (myocardial infarction, acute CHD
death, unstable angina, coronary revascularization, or stroke) in CARDS




In the Treating to New Targets Study (TNT), the effect of atorvastatin calcium tablets 80
mg/day vs. atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg/day on the reduction in cardiovascular
events was assessed in 10,001 subjects (94% white, 81% male, 38% ≥ 65 years) with
clinically evident coronary heart disease who had achieved a target LDL-C level<130
mg/dL after completing an 8-week, open-label, run-in period with atorvastatin calcium
tablets 10 mg/day. Subjects were randomly assigned to either 10 mg/day or 80 mg/day
of atorvastatin calcium tablets and followed for a median duration of 4.9 years. The
primary endpoint was the time-to-first occurrence of any of the following major
cardiovascular events (MCVE): death due to CHD, non-fatal myocardial infarction,
resuscitated cardiac arrest, and fatal and non-fatal stroke. The mean LDL-C, TC, TG,
non-HDL, and HDL cholesterol levels at 12 weeks were 73, 145, 128, 98, and 47 mg/dL
during treatment with 80 mg of atorvastatin calcium tablets and 99, 177, 152, 129, and
48 mg/dL during treatment with 10 mg of atorvastatin calcium tablets.
Treatment with atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg/day significantly reduced the rate of
MCVE (434 events in the 80 mg/day group vs. 548 events in the 10 mg/day group) with
a relative risk reduction of 22%, HR 0.78, 95% CI (0.69, 0.89), p=0.0002 (see Figure 3
and Table7). The overall risk reduction was consistent regardless of age (<65, ≥ 65) or
sex.
Figure 3: Effect of atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg/day vs. 10 mg/day on
Time to Occurrence of Major Cardiovascular Events (TNT)




           Table 7: Overview of Efficacy Results in TNT
                                 AtorvastatinAtorvastatin
                                                             HR
Endpoint                            10 mg       80 mg    a(95%CI)
                                  (N=5,006) (N=4,995)
PRIMARY ENDPOINT                   n    (%)    n    (%)
                                                            0.78
First major cardiovascular
                                 548 (10.9) 434 (8.7)      (0.69,
endpoint
                                                            0.89)
Components of the Primary
Endpoint
                                                              0.80
CHD death                        127   (2.5)   101   (2.0)   (0.61,
                                                              1.03)
                                                              0.78
Non-fatal, non-procedure
                                 308   (6.2)   243   (4.9)   (0.66,
related MI
                                                              0.93)
                                                              0.96
Resuscitated cardiac arrest       26   (0.5)   25    (0.5)   (0.56,
                                                              1.67)
                                                              0.75
Stroke (fatal and non-fatal)     155   (3.1)   117   (2.3)   (0.59,
                                                              0.96)
SECONDARY ENDPOINTS *
                                                              0.74
First CHF with hospitalization   164   (3.3)   122   (2.4)   (0.59,
                                                              0.94)
                                                              0.97
First PVD endpoint               282    (5.6)   275   (5.5)    (0.83,
                                                                1.15)
                                                                0.72
First CABG or other coronary
                                 904 (18.1)     667 (13.4)     (0.65,
revascularization procedure b
                                                                0.80)
                                                                0.88
First documented angina
                                 615 (12.3)     545 (10.9)     (0.79,
endpoint b
                                                                0.99)
                                                                1.01
All-cause mortality              282    (5.6)   284   (5.7)    (0.85,
                                                                1.19)
Components of All-Cause
Mortality
                                                                0.81
Cardiovascular death             155    (3.1)   126   (2.5)    (0.64,
                                                                1.03)
                                                                1.25
Noncardiovascular death          127    (2.5)   158   (3.2)    (0.99,
                                                                1.57)
                                                                1.13
Cancer death                      75    (1.5)   85    (1.7)    (0.83,
                                                                1.55)
                                                                1.35
Other non-CV death                43    (0.9)   58    (1.2)    (0.91,
                                                                2.00)
                                                                1.67
Suicide, homicide, and
                                  9     (0.2)   15    (0.3)    (0.73,
othertraumatic non-CV death
                                                                3.82)
a Atorvastatin 80 mg: atorvastatin 10 mg
b Component of other secondary endpoints
* Secondary endpoints not included in primary endpoint
HR=hazard ratio; CHD=coronary heart disease; CI=confidence
interval; MI=myocardial infarction; CHF=congestive heart failure;
CV=cardiovascular; PVD=peripheral vascular disease;
CABG=coronary artery bypass graft Confidence intervals for the
Secondary Endpoints were not adjusted for multiple comparisons

Of the events that comprised the primary efficacy endpoint, treatment with atorvastatin
calcium tablets 80 mg/day significantly reduced the rate of non-fatal, non-procedure
related MI and fatal and non-fatal stroke, but not CHD death or resuscitated cardiac
arrest (Table 7). Of the predefined secondary endpoints, treatment with atorvastatin
calcium tablets 80 mg/day significantly reduced the rate of coronary revascularization,
angina, and hospitalization for heart failure, but not peripheral vascular disease. The
reduction in the rate of CHF with hospitalization was only observed in the 8% of patients
with a prior history of CHF.
There was no significant difference between the treatment groups for all-cause mortality
(Table 7). The proportions of subjects who experienced cardiovascular death, including
the components of CHD death and fatal stroke, were numerically smaller in the
atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg group than in the atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg
treatment group. The proportions of subjects who experienced noncardiovascular death
were numerically larger in the atorvastatin calcium tablets 80 mg group than in the
atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg treatment group.
Primary Hyperlipidemia in Adults
Atorvastatin calcium tablets reduces total-C, LDL-C, apo B, and TG, and increases HDL-C
in patients with hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and nonfamilial) and mixed
dyslipidemia. Therapeutic response is seen within 2 weeks, and maximum response is
usually achieved within 4 weeks and maintained during chronic therapy.
In two multicenter, placebo-controlled, dose-response trials in patients with
hyperlipidemia, atorvastatin calcium tablets given as a single dose over 6 weeks,
significantly reduced total-C, LDL-C, apo B, and TG. (Pooled results are provided in Table
8.)
Table 8: Dose Response in Patients With Primary Hyperlipidemia (Adjusted
Mean % Change From Baseline) a

     Dose        N     TC    LDL-C      Apo B          TG          HDL-C
    Placebo     21     4       4          3             10          -3
       10       22 -29        -39        -32           -19           6
       20       20 -33        -43        -35           -26           9
       40       21 -37        -50        -42           -29           6
       80       23 -45        -60        -50           -37           5
a Results are pooled from 2 dose-response trials.


In three multicenter, double-blind trials in patients with hyperlipidemia, atorvastatin
calcium tablets was compared to other statins. After randomization, patients were
treated for 16 weeks with either atorvastatin calcium tablets 10 mg per day or a fixed
dose of the comparative agent (Table 9).
Table 9: Mean Percentage Change From Baseline at Endpoint (Double-Blind,
Randomized, Active-Controlled Trials)

Treatment (Daily
                            N Total-C LDL-C        Apo B      TG     HDL-C
Dosage)
Trial 1
atorvastatin calcium
                           707 -27 a       -36 a   -28 a     -17 a    +7
tablets 10 mg
Lovastatin 20 mg           191     -19     -27      -20      -6      +7
                                 -9.2, - -10.7, - -10.0, - -15.2, - -1.7,
95% CI for Diff 1
                                   6.5     7.1      6.5      7.1     2.0
Trial 2
atorvastatin calcium
                           222 -25 b       -35 b   -27 b     -17 b    +6
tablets 10 mg
Pravastatin 20 mg          77      -17      -23      -17      -9      +8
                                 -10.8, - -14.5, - -13.4, - -14.1, - -4.9,
95% CI for Diff 1
                                   6.1      8.2      7.4      0.7     1.6
Trial 3
atorvastatin calcium
                           132     -29 c   -37 c   -34 c     -23 c    +7
                           132     -29 c   -37 c   -34 c   -23 c    +7
tablets 10 mg
Simvastatin 10 mg           45       -24    -30     -30       -15    +7
                                  -8.7, - -10.1, - -8.0, - -15.1, - -4.3,
95% CI for Diff 1
                                   2.7      2.6     1.1        0.7   3.9
1 A negative value for the 95% CI for the difference between
treatments favors atorvastatin calcium tablets for all except HDL-C,
for which a positive value favors atorvastatin calcium tablets. If the
range does not include 0, this indicates a statistically significant
difference.
a Significantly different from lovastatin, ANCOVA, p ≤ 0.05
b Significantly different from pravastatin, ANCOVA, p ≤ 0.05
c Significantly different from simvastatin, ANCOVA, p ≤ 0.05


Table 9 does not contain data comparing the effects of atorvastatin calcium tablets 10
mg and higher dosages of lovastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin. The drugs compared
in the trials summarized in the table are not necessarily exchangeable.
Hypertriglyceridemia in Adults
The response to atorvastatin calcium tablets in 64 patients with isolated
hypertriglyceridemia treated across several clinical trials is shown in the table below
(Table 10). For the atorvastatin calcium -treated patients, median (min, max) baseline TG
level was 565 (267–1502).
Table 10: Combined Patients With Isolated Elevated TG: Median (min, max)
Percentage Change from Baseline

                  atorvastatin       atorvastatin       atorvastatin
       Placebo calcium tablets 10 calcium tablets 20 calcium tablets 80
       (N=12)          mg                 mg                 mg
                     (N=37)             (N=13)             (N=14)
       -12.4 (-
                  -41.0 (-76.2,      -38.7 (-62.7,      -51.8 (-82.8,
TG       36.6,
                      49.4)              29.5)              41.3)
         82.7)
        -2.3 (-
Total-                              -34.9 (-49.6, -
         15.5, -28.2 (-44.9, -6.8)                   -44.4 (-63.5, -3.8)
C                                        15.2)
         24.4)
         3.6 (-
LDL-                                                   -40.5 (-60.6, -
         31.3, -26.5 (-57.7, 9.8) -30.4 (-53.9, 0.3)
C                                                           13.8)
         31.6)
         3.8 (-
HDL-
         18.6,  13.8 (-9.7, 61.5) 11.0 (-3.2, 25.2) 7.5 (-10.8, 37.2)
C
         13.4)
non- -2.8 (-
                 -33.0 (-52.1, -    -42.7 (-53.7, -
HDL-     17.6,                                       -51.5 (-72.9, -4.3)
                      13.3)              17.4)
C        30.0)

Dysbetalipoproteinemia in Adults
The results of an open-label crossover trial of 16 patients (genotypes: 14 apo E2/E2 and
2 apo E3/E2) with dysbetalipoproteinemia are shown in the table below (Table11).
Table 11: Open-Label Crossover Trial of 16 Patients With
Dysbetalipoproteinemia

                                       Median % Change (min, max)
                                   Atorvastatin
              Median (min, max) at     calcium   Atorvastatin calcium
               Baseline (mg/dL)      tablets 10     tablets 80 mg
                                         mg
                                      -37 (-85,
Total-C         442 (225, 1320)                     -58 (-90, -31)
                                         17)
Triglycerides   678 (273, 5990)    -39 (-92, -8)    -53 (-95, -30)
IDL-C +
                215 (111, 613)      -32 (-76, 9)     -63 (-90, -8)
VLDL-C
                                     -43 (-87, -
non-HDL-C       411 (218, 1272)                     -64 (-92, -36)
                                         19)

HoFH in Adults and Pediatric Patients
In a trial without a concurrent control group, 29 patients (mean age of 22 years,
median age of 24 years, 31% <18 years) with HoFH received maximum daily doses of
 20 to 80 mg of atorvastatin calcium tablets. The mean LDL-C reduction in this trial was
18%. Twenty-five patients with a reduction in LDL-C had a mean response of 20%
(range of 7% to 53%, median of 24%); the remaining 4 patients had 7% to 24%
increases in LDL-C. Five of the 29 patients had absent LDL-receptor function. Of these,
2 patients also had a portacaval shunt and had no significant reduction in LDL-C. The
remaining 3 receptor-negative patients had a mean LDL-C reduction of 22%.
HeFH in Pediatric Patients
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial followed by an open-label phase, 187 males and
post-menarchal females 10 years to 17 years of age (mean age 14.1 years; 31% female;
92% White, 1.6% Black or African American, 1.6% Asians, 4.8% other) with
heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) or severe hypercholesterolemia,
were randomized to atorvastatin calcium tablets(n=140) or placebo (n=47) for 26
weeks and then all received atorvastatin calcium tablets for 26 weeks. Inclusion in the
trial required 1) a baseline LDL-C level ≥ 190 mg/dL or 2) a baseline LDL-C level ≥ 160
mg/dL and positive family history of FH or documented premature cardiovascular
disease in a first or second-degree relative. The mean baseline LDL-C value was 219
mg/dL (range: 139–385 mg/dL) in the atorvastatin calcium tablets group compared to
230 mg/dL(range: 160–325 mg/dL) in the placebo group. The dosage of atorvastatin
calcium tablets (once daily) was 10 mg for the first 4 weeks and uptitrated to 20 mg if
the LDL-C level was > 130 mg/dL. The number of atorvastatin -treated patients who
required uptitration to 20 mg after Week 4 during the double-blind phase was 78 (56%).
Atorvastatin calcium tablets significantly decreased plasma levels of total-C, LDL-C, TG,
and apolipoprotein B during the 26-week double-blind phase (see Table 12).

Table 12: Lipid-altering Effects of Atorvastatin calcium tablets
 in Adolescent Males and Females with Heterozygous Familial
Hypercholesterolemia or Severe Hypercholesterolemia (Mean
 Percentage Change From Baseline at Endpoint in Intention-
                   to-Treat Population)
                                Total- LDL- HDL-      Apolipoprotein
DOSAGE                       N                    TG
                                  C     C    C               B
Placebo                      47 -1.5 -0.4 -1.9 1.0          0.7
Atorvastatin calcium                               -
                            140 -31.4 -39.6 2.8           -34.0
tablets                                          12.0

The mean achieved LDL-C value was 130.7 mg/dL (range: 70.0–242.0 mg/dL) in the
atorvastatin calcium tablets group compared to 228.5 mg/dL (range: 152.0–385.0
mg/dL) in the placebo group during the 26-week double-blind phase.
Atorvastatin was also studied in a three year open-label, uncontrolled trial that included
163 patients with HeFH who were 10 years to 15 years old (82 males and 81 females).
All patients had a clinical diagnosis of HeFH confirmed by genetic analysis (if not already
confirmed by family history). Approximately 98% were White, and less than 1% were
Black, African American or Asian. Mean LDL-C at baseline was 232 mg/dL. The starting
atorvastatin dosage was 10 mg once daily and doses were adjusted to achieve a target
of < 130 mg/dL LDL-C. The reductions in LDL-C from baseline were generally consistent
across age groups within the trial as well as with previous clinical trials in both adult and
pediatric placebo-controlled trials.


16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
Atorvastatin calcium tablets are supplied as follows:

             How
Strength                NDC Tablet Description
             Supplied
             bottles of 75834-
             90         255-90
             bottles of 75834- white to off-white, film-coated, oval
10 mg of 1000           255-01 shaped tablets "ATO" debossed on one
atorvastatin bottles of 75834- side and "10" on other side.
             5000       255-05
             bottles of 75834-
             500        255-50
             bottles of 75834-
             90         256-90
             bottles of 75834- white to off-white, film-coated, oval
20 mg of 1000           256-01 shaped tablets "ATO" debossed on one
atorvastatin bottles of 75834- side and "20" on other side.
             5000       256-05
             bottles of 75834-
             500        256-50
             bottles of 75834-
             90         257-90
             bottles of75834- white to off-white, film-coated, oval
40 mg of 500            257-50shaped tablets "ATO" debossed on one
atorvastatin bottles of 75834- side and "40" on other side.
             2500       257-25
             bottles of 75834-
             1000       257-01
             bottles of 75834-
             90         258-90
             bottles of 75834- white to off-white, film-coated, oval
80 mg of 500            258-50 shaped tablets "ATO" debossed on one
atorvastatin bottles of 75834- side and "80" on other side.
             2000       258-02
             bottles of 75834-
             1000       258-01

​ Storage
Store at controlled room temperature 20°C - 25°C (68°F - 77°F).


17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
Advise the patient to read the FDA-approved patient labeling (Patient Information).
Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis
Advise patients that atorvastatin calcium tablets may cause myopathy and
rhabdomyolysis. Inform patients that the risk is also increased when taking certain types
of medication or consuming large quantities of grapefruit juice and they should discuss
all medication, both prescription and over the counter, with their healthcare provider.
Instruct patients to promptly report any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or
weakness particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever [see Warnings and Precautions
( 5.1), Drug Interactions ( 7.1)].
Hepatic Dysfunction
Inform patients that atorvastatin calcium tablets may cause liver enzyme elevations and
possibly liver failure. Advise patients to promptly report fatigue, anorexia, right upper
abdominal discomfort, dark urine or jaundice [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)].
Increases in HbA1c and Fasting Serum Glucose Levels
Inform patients that increases in HbA1c and fasting serum glucose levels may occur
with atorvastatin calcium tablets. Encourage patients to optimize lifestyle measures,
including regular exercise, maintaining a healthy body weight, and making healthy food
choices [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4)].
Pregnancy
Advise pregnant patients and patients who can become pregnant of the potential risk to
a fetus. Advise patients to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected
pregnancy to discuss if atorvastatin calcium tablets should be discontinued [see Use in
Specific Populations ( 8.1)].
Lactation
Advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with
atorvastatin calcium tablets [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.2)].
Missed Doses
If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take the missed dose and resume with the
next scheduled dose.
Manufactured by:
Umedica Laboratories Pvt. Ltd.
Plot No. 221 and 221/1, GIDC, II nd Phase,
Vapi, Gujarat 396195, India (IND)
Manufactured for:
Nivagen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.​​
​Sacramento, CA 95827 USA
Toll free number: 1-877-977-0687
January 2026; V-07


                                PATIENT INFORMATION
  (Atorvastatin Calcium (a tor "va stat' in kal' see um) Tablets, USP, for oral
                                           use)
What is atorvastatin calcium tablets?
Atorvastatin calcium tablets are a prescription medicine that contains a cholesterol
lowering medicine (statin) called atorvastatin. Atorvastatin calcium tablets are used:
   to reduce the risk of:
      heart attack, stroke, certain types of heart surgery and chest pain in adults who
      do not have heart disease but have other multiple risk factors for heart disease.
      heart attack and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus who do not have
      heart disease but have other multiple risk factors.
      heart attack that does not cause death, stroke, certain types of heart surgery,
      hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and chest pain in adults with heart
      disease.
   along with diet to reduce low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) or bad
   cholesterol:
      in adults with primary hyperlipidemia.
      in adults and children aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial
      hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). This is an inherited condition that causes high levels
      of bad cholesterol.
   along with other cholesterol lowering treatments or alone if such treatments are
   unavailable in adults and children aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial
   hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). This is an inherited condition that causes high levels of
   bad cholesterol.
   along with diet for the treatment of adults with:
      primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (an inherited condition that causes high levels of
      cholesterol and fat).
      hypertriglyceridemia.

It is not known if atorvastatin calcium tablets are safe and eﬀective in children younger
than 10 years of age with HeFH or HoFH or in children with other types of
hyperlipidemias (other than HeFH or HoFH).
Do not take atorvastatin calcium tablets if you:
   have liver problems (acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis)
   are allergic to atorvastatin or any of the ingredients in atorvastatin calcium tablets.
   Stop using atorvastatin calcium tablets and get medical help right away if you have
   symptoms of a serious allergic reaction including:
      swelling of your face, lips, tongue or throat
      problems breathing or swallowing
      fainting or feeling dizzy
      very rapid heartbeat
      severe skin rash or itching
      flu-like symptoms including fever, sore throat, cough, tiredness, and joint pain
   See the end of this leaﬂet for a complete list of ingredients in Atorvastatin calcium
   tablets.

Before you take Atorvastatin calcium tablets, tell your healthcare provider
about all of your medical conditions, including if you:
  have unexplained muscle aches or weakness
  drink more than 2 glasses of alcohol daily
  have diabetes
  have thyroid problems
  have kidney problems
  had a stroke
  are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. Atorvastatin calcium tablets may harm
  your unborn baby. If you become pregnant, stop taking Atorvastatin calcium tablets
  and call your healthcare provider right away.
  are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. You and your healthcare provider should
  decide if you will take Atorvastatin calcium tablets or breastfeed. You should not do
  both. Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you
  take Atorvastatin calcium tablets.

Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including
prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, and herbal supplements.
Atorvastatin calcium tablets and certain other medicines can increase the risk of muscle
problems or other side eﬀects. Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take
medicines for:
   your immune system (cyclosporine)
   cholesterol (gemfibrozil)
   infections (erythromycin, clarithromycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole,
   and voriconazole)
   birth control pills
   heart failure (digoxin)
   gout (colchicine)
   niacin
   fibrates
   treating HIV, AIDS, or hepatitis C (anti-virals)
      tipranavir plus   glecaprevir
      ritonavir         plus
      ledipasvir plus   pibrentasvir
      sofosbuvir        simeprevir
      saquinavir        darunavir plus
      plus ritonavir    ritonavir
      fosamprenavir     fosamprenavir
      elbasvir plus     plus ritonavir
      grazoprevir       letermovir
      nelfinavir

Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of medicines if you are not sure.
Know all the medicines you take. Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider
and pharmacist when you get a new medicine.
How should I take atorvastatin calcium tablets?
  Take atorvastatin calcium tablets exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take
  it.
  Do not change your dose or stop atorvastatin calcium tablets without talking to your
  healthcare provider.
  Your healthcare provider may do blood tests to check your cholesterol levels during
  your treatment with atorvastatin calcium tablets. Your dose of atorvastatin calcium
  tablets may be changed based on these blood test results.
  Take atorvastatin calcium tablets each day at any time of day. Atorvastatin calcium
  tablets can be taken with or without food.
  Your healthcare provider may start you on a cholesterol lowering diet before giving
  you atorvastatin calcium tablets. Stay on this low-fat diet when you take atorvastatin
  calcium tablets.
  If you miss a dose of atorvastatin calcium tablets, wait and take the next dose at
  your regular time. Do not take 2 doses of atorvastatin calcium tablets at the same
  time.
  If you take too much atorvastatin calcium tablets or overdose, call your healthcare
  provider or poison control center at 1-800-222-1222 or go to the nearest
  emergency room right away.

What should I avoid while taking atorvastatin calcium tablets?
  Avoid drinking more than 1.2 liters of grapefruit juice each day.

What are the possible side effects of atorvastatin calcium tablets?
Atorvastatin calcium tablets may cause serious side effects including:​​
  Muscle pain, tenderness and weakness (myopathy).Muscle problems,
  including muscle breakdown, can be serious in some people and, rarely, cause kidney
  damage that can lead to death.
  Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have:​​
      unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, especially if you also have a
      fever or feel more tired than usual while you take atorvastatin calcium tablets.
      muscle problems that do not go away after your healthcare provider has told you
      to stop taking atorvastatin calcium tablets. Your healthcare provider may do
      further tests to diagnose the cause of your muscle problems.​​
   Your chances of getting muscle problems are higher if you:
       are taking certain other medicines while you take atorvastatin calcium tablets
       drink large amounts of grapefruit juice
       are 65 years of age or older
       have thyroid problems (hypothyroidism) that are not controlled
       have kidney problems
       are taking higher doses of atorvastatin calcium tablets​​
   Liver problems.Your healthcare provider should do blood tests to check your liver
   before you start taking atorvastatin calcium tablets and if you have symptoms of
   liver problems while you take atorvastatin calcium tablets. Call your healthcare
   provider right away if you have the following symptoms of liver problems:
       feel tired or weak
       nausea or vomiting
       loss of appetite
       upper belly pain
       dark amber colored urine
       yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes
   Increase in blood sugar level.Your blood sugar level may increase while you are
   taking atorvastatin calcium tablets.

​Exercise regularly and make healthy food choices to maintain healthy body weight.
 The most common side effects of atorvastatin calcium tablets include:



      nasal          muscle      and
      congestion,    joint pain
      sore           pain           in
      throat,        extremity
      runny nose     upset stomach
      diarrhea       musculoskeletal
      urinary        pain
      tract          trouble sleeping
      infection
      nausea
      muscle
      spasms
      throat pain

Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have side eﬀects that bother you
or that will not go away.
These are not all the side eﬀects of atorvastatin calcium tablets. Call your healthcare
provider for medical advice about side eﬀects. You may report side eﬀects to FDA at 1-
800-FDA-1088.
How do I store atorvastatin calcium tablets?
    Store atorvastatin calcium tablets at room temperature between 68ºF to 77ºF (20ºC
    to 25ºC).
    Do not keep medicine that is out of date or that you no longer need.
    Keep atorvastatin calcium tablets and all medicines out of the reach of
   children.

General information about the safe and eﬀective use of atorvastatin calcium
tablets.
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient
Information leaflet.
Do not use atorvastatin calcium tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed.
Do not give atorvastatin calcium tablets to other people, even if they have the same
symptoms that you have. It may harm them. If you would like more information about
atorvastatin calcium tablets, talk with your healthcare provider. You can ask your
pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about atorvastatin calcium tablets
that is written for health professionals.
What are the ingredients in atorvastatin calcium tablets?
Active Ingredient: atorvastatin calcium
Inactive Ingredients: Croscarmellose sodium, NF; Hydroxy propyl cellulose, NF;,
Lactose monohydrate, NF; Magnesium stearate, NF; Microcrystalline cellulose, NF;
Polysorbate 80, NF; Precipitated calcium carbonate, NF; Hypromellose; Macrogol; Talc
and Titanium dioxide.

Manufactured by:
Umedica Laboratories Pvt. Ltd.
Plot No.221 and 221/1, GIDC, II ndPhase,
Vapi, Gujarat 396195, India (IND)

Manufactured for:
Nivagen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Sacramento, CA 95827 USA

Toll free number: 1-877-977-0687
This Patient Package Information has been approved by the U.S. Food     January 2026;
and Drug Administration                                                 V-07


PACKAGE LABEL.PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL
Atorvastatin Calcium Tablets, USP 10 mg NDC 75834-255-90 - 90s Bottle
Label




Atorvastatin Calcium Tablets, USP 20 mg NDC 75834-256-01 - 1000s Bottle
Label
Atorvastatin Calcium Tablets, USP 40 mg NDC 75834-257-50 - 500s Bottle
Label




Atorvastatin Calcium Tablets, USP 80 mg NDC 75834-258-02 - 2000s Bottle
Label
ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM
atorvastatin calcium tablet


Product Information
Product Type                      HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG        Item Code (Source)           NDC:75834-256

Route of Administration           ORAL




Active Ingredient/Active Moiety
                           Ingredient Name                                    Basis of Strength      Strength
ATORVASTATIN (UNII: A0JWA85V8F) (ATORVASTATIN - UNII:A0JWA85V8F)          ATORVASTATIN               20 mg




Inactive Ingredients
                                       Ingredient Name                                             Strength
CALCIUM CARBONATE (UNII: H0G9379FGK)
HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (UNII: RFW2ET671P)
POLYSORBATE 80 (UNII: 6OZ P39Z G8H)
MAGNESIUM STEARATE (UNII: 70097M6I30)
CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE (UNII: OP1R32D61U)
LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE (UNII: EWQ57Q8I5X)
CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM (UNII: M28OL1HH48)
HYPROMELLOSES (UNII: 3NXW29V3WO)
POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 (UNII: Q662QK8M3B)
TITANIUM DIOXIDE (UNII: 15FIX9V2JP)
TALC (UNII: 7SEV7J4R1U)




Product Characteristics
Color                          white          Score                                    no s core
Shape                          OVAL           Size                                     12mm
Flavor                                        Imprint Code                             ATO;20
Contains



Packaging
                                                                   Marketing Start        Marketing End
#    Item Code                Package Description
                                                                       Date                   Date
    NDC:75834-256- 90 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
1                                                                08/26/2020
    90             Product
    NDC:75834-256- 1000 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
2                                                                08/26/2020
    01             Product
    NDC:75834-256- 5000 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
3                                                                08/26/2020
    05             Product
    NDC:75834-256- 500 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
4                                                                08/26/2020
    50             Product
Marketing Information
     Marketing            Application Number or Monograph           Marketing Start          Marketing End
     Category                          Citation                         Date                     Date
ANDA                  ANDA213853                                   08/26/2020




ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM
atorvastatin calcium tablet


Product Information
Product Type                       HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG       Item Code (Source)           NDC:75834-255

Route of Administration            ORAL




Active Ingredient/Active Moiety
                            Ingredient Name                                   Basis of Strength      Strength
ATORVASTATIN (UNII: A0JWA85V8F) (ATORVASTATIN - UNII:A0JWA85V8F)          ATORVASTATIN               10 mg




Inactive Ingredients
                                       Ingredient Name                                             Strength
CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE (UNII: OP1R32D61U)
LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE (UNII: EWQ57Q8I5X)
CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM (UNII: M28OL1HH48)
CALCIUM CARBONATE (UNII: H0G9379FGK)
HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (UNII: RFW2ET671P)
POLYSORBATE 80 (UNII: 6OZ P39Z G8H)
MAGNESIUM STEARATE (UNII: 70097M6I30)
POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 (UNII: Q662QK8M3B)
HYPROMELLOSES (UNII: 3NXW29V3WO)
TITANIUM DIOXIDE (UNII: 15FIX9V2JP)
TALC (UNII: 7SEV7J4R1U)




Product Characteristics
Color                          white          Score                                    no s core
Shape                          OVAL           Size                                     9mm
Flavor                                        Imprint Code                             ATO;10
Contains



Packaging
                                                                   Marketing Start        Marketing End
#    Item Code                Package Description
                                                                       Date                   Date
    NDC:75834-255- 90 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
1                                                                08/26/2020
    90             Product
    NDC:75834-255- 1000 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
2                                                                08/26/2020
    01             Product
    NDC:75834-255- 5000 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
3                                                                08/26/2020
    05             Product
    NDC:75834-255- 500 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
4                                                                08/26/2020
    50             Product




Marketing Information
     Marketing            Application Number or Monograph           Marketing Start         Marketing End
     Category                          Citation                         Date                    Date
ANDA                  ANDA213853                                   08/26/2020




ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM
atorvastatin calcium tablet


Product Information
Product Type                       HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG       Item Code (Source)           NDC:75834-257

Route of Administration            ORAL




Active Ingredient/Active Moiety
                            Ingredient Name                                   Basis of Strength      Strength
ATORVASTATIN (UNII: A0JWA85V8F) (ATORVASTATIN - UNII:A0JWA85V8F)          ATORVASTATIN               40 mg




Inactive Ingredients
                                      Ingredient Name                                              Strength
CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE (UNII: OP1R32D61U)
LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE (UNII: EWQ57Q8I5X)
CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM (UNII: M28OL1HH48)
CALCIUM CARBONATE (UNII: H0G9379FGK)
HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (UNII: RFW2ET671P)
POLYSORBATE 80 (UNII: 6OZ P39Z G8H)
MAGNESIUM STEARATE (UNII: 70097M6I30)
HYPROMELLOSES (UNII: 3NXW29V3WO)
POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 (UNII: Q662QK8M3B)
TITANIUM DIOXIDE (UNII: 15FIX9V2JP)
TALC (UNII: 7SEV7J4R1U)




Product Characteristics
Color                         white           Score                                    no s core
Shape                         OVAL            Size                                     15mm
Flavor                                        Imprint Code                             ATO;40
Contains
Packaging
                                                                   Marketing Start        Marketing End
#    Item Code                Package Description
                                                                       Date                   Date
    NDC:75834-257- 90 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
1                                                                08/26/2020
    90             Product
    NDC:75834-257- 500 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
2                                                                08/26/2020
    50             Product
    NDC:75834-257- 2500 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
3                                                                08/26/2020
    25             Product
    NDC:75834-257- 1000 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
4                                                                08/26/2020
    01             Product




Marketing Information
     Marketing            Application Number or Monograph           Marketing Start        Marketing End
     Category                          Citation                         Date                   Date
ANDA                  ANDA213853                                   08/26/2020




ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM
atorvastatin calcium tablet


Product Information
Product Type                       HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG       Item Code (Source)         NDC:75834-258

Route of Administration            ORAL




Active Ingredient/Active Moiety
                            Ingredient Name                                   Basis of Strength   Strength
ATORVASTATIN (UNII: A0JWA85V8F) (ATORVASTATIN - UNII:A0JWA85V8F)          ATORVASTATIN            80 mg




Inactive Ingredients
                                    Ingredient Name                                           Strength
CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE (UNII: OP1R32D61U)
LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE (UNII: EWQ57Q8I5X)
CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM (UNII: M28OL1HH48)
CALCIUM CARBONATE (UNII: H0G9379FGK)
HYDROXYPROPYL CELLULOSE (UNII: RFW2ET671P)
POLYSORBATE 80 (UNII: 6OZ P39Z G8H)
MAGNESIUM STEARATE (UNII: 70097M6I30)
HYPROMELLOSES (UNII: 3NXW29V3WO)
POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 8000 (UNII: Q662QK8M3B)
TITANIUM DIOXIDE (UNII: 15FIX9V2JP)
TALC (UNII: 7SEV7J4R1U)




Product Characteristics
 Color                          white             Score                                    no s core
 Shape                          OVAL              Size                                     19mm
 Flavor                                           Imprint Code                             ATO;80
 Contains



 Packaging
                                                                       Marketing Start         Marketing End
 #    Item Code               Package Description
                                                                           Date                    Date
     NDC:75834-258- 90 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
 1                                                                    08/26/2020
     90             Product
     NDC:75834-258- 500 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
 2                                                                    08/26/2020
     50             Product
     NDC:75834-258- 2000 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
 3                                                                    08/26/2020
     02             Product
     NDC:75834-258- 1000 in 1 BOTTLE; Type 0: Not a Combination
 4                                                                    08/26/2020
     01             Product




 Marketing Information
      Marketing          Application Number or Monograph                 Marketing Start        Marketing End
      Category                        Citation                               Date                   Date
 ANDA                  ANDA213853                                      08/26/2020




Labeler - NIVAGEN PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. (044940096)

Establishment
          Name             Address       ID/FEI                        Business Operations
UMEDICA LABORATORIES                                manufacture(75834-255, 75834-256, 75834-257, 75834-258) ,
                                        920635096
PRIVATE LIMITED                                     analys is (75834-255, 75834-256, 75834-257, 75834-258)


Revised: 9/2026                                                                 NIVAGEN PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
