PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER
Suprax 200mg Tablets
Cefixime

Is this leaflet hard to see or read? Phone +44 (0) 208 588 9131 for help
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important
information for you.
• Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
• If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
• This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even
    if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
• If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects
    not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.

What is in this leaflet
1. What Suprax is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Suprax
3. How to take Suprax
4. Possible side effects
5. How to store Suprax
6. Contents of the pack and other information

1.      What Suprax is and what it is used for

Suprax 200mg Tablets (called Suprax in this leaflet) contains a medicine called cefixime. This belongs to
a group of antibiotics called ‘cephalosporins’.

Suprax is used to treat infections caused by bacteria. These include infections of the:
 • Ear
 • Nose, sinuses (such as sinusitis)
 • Throat (such as tonsillitis, pharyngitis)
 • Chest and lungs (such as bronchitis, pneumonia)
 • Urinary system (such as cystitis and kidney infections)

2.      What you need to know before you take Suprax

Do not take Suprax if:
 x You are allergic to cefixime, any other cephalosporin antibiotics including penicillin or to any of the
    other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6).
    Signs of an allergic reaction include: a rash, swallowing or breathing problems, swelling of the lips,
    face, throat and tongue.
Do not take this medicine if the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or pharmacist
before taking Suprax.

Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Suprax if:
 ▴ You have ever had colitis
 ▴ You have kidney problems.
If you are not sure if any of the above apply to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking this
medicine.
Severe skin problems such as Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), Drug
Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) and Acute Generalised Exanthematous
Pustulosis (AGEP) have been reported with cefixime (see section 4). If you develop severe skin reactions
or any of the reactions listed in section 4, stop treatment immediately and contact your doctor or
healthcare professional.

Other medicines and Suprax
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
This includes medicines you buy without a prescription, including herbal medicines. This is because
Suprax can affect the way some other medicines work. Also, some medicines can affect the way Suprax
works.

In particular, tell your doctor if you are taking the following:
 • Medicines to thin the blood such as warfarin

Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your
doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.

Driving and using machines
This medicine can cause symptoms including fits (convulsions), feeling confused, feeling less alert or
aware of things than usual, unusual muscle movements or stiffness. If you experience any of these effects
don’t drive or use machinery.

Medical Tests
If you require any tests (such as blood or urine tests) while taking this medicine, please make sure your
doctor knows that you are taking Suprax.

3.      How to take Suprax

Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if
you are not sure.
 • Take this medicine by mouth.
 • Swallow tablets whole with a drink of water.
 • If you feel the effect of the medicine is too weak or too strong, do not change the dose yourself, but
    ask your doctor.

Carefully read the label from the pharmacist. Ask your pharmacist if you are not sure about the dose to
take. The medicine should be taken for the prescribed number of days.

The recommended dose is:
Adults, Elderly and Children over 10 years or weighing more than 50kg
• 1-2 tablets each day given as a single or divided dose.
People with kidney problems
• Your doctor may prescribe a lower dose.
Children under 10 years old
• Suprax should not be given to children under 10 years old.

If you take more Suprax than you should
If you have too much of this medicine, talk to your doctor straight away.

If you forget to take Suprax
If you forget to take a dose, take it as soon as you remember it. However, if it is nearly time for the next
dose, skip the missed dose. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.

If you stop taking Suprax
Do not stop taking this medicine without talking to your doctor. You should not stop taking Suprax just
because you feel better. This is because the infection may come back or get worse again.

If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

4.      Possible side effects

Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.

Tell your doctor straight away or go to the nearest hospital casualty department if you notice any of
the following serious side effects – you may need urgent medical treatment:
 • You have an allergic reaction. The signs may include: a rash, joint pain, swallowing or breathing
     problems, swelling of your lips, face, throat or tongue.
 • SJS/TEN symptoms may include blistering, peeling or bleeding on any part of the skin (including the
     lips, eyes, mouth, nose, genitals, hands or feet). Also, flu-like symptoms such as fever, chills or
     aching muscles.
 • DRESS symptoms may include flu-like symptoms and a widespread rash with a high body
     temperature and enlarged lymph nodes. Abnormal blood test results may include increased levels of
     liver enzymes and an increase in a type of white blood cell (eosinophilia) and enlarged lymph nodes.
 • AGEP symptoms may include a red, scaly, widespread rash with bumps under the skin (including
     your skin folds, chest, abdomen (including stomach), back and arms) and blisters accompanied by
     fever.
 • Erythema multiforme symptoms include skin rash or skin lesions with a pink/red ring and a pale
     centre which may be itchy, scaly or filled with fluid. The rash may appear especially on the palms or
     soles of your feet.
 • You get infections more easily than usual. This could be because of a blood disorder. This normally
     gets better after stopping the medicine.
 • You bruise or bleed more easily than normal. This could be because of a blood disorder. This
     normally gets better after stopping the medicine.
 • If your child gets nose bleeds, bleeding gums, chills, tiredness, pale skin (often with a yellow tinge),
     shortness of breath. This may be due to haemolytic anaemia.
 • Changes in the way the kidneys are working or blood in your child’s urine.
 • Fits (convulsions)
 • A brain condition with symptoms including fits (convulsions), feeling confused, feeling less alert or
     aware of things than usual, unusual muscle movements or stiffness. This may be something called
     encephalopathy. This side effect is more likely if you have taken an overdose or you already have a
     problem with your kidneys.

Stop taking this medicine and contact your doctor without delay if you get:
 • Severe watery diarrhoea that will not stop and you are feeling weak and have a fever. This may be
    something called ‘Pseudomembranous colitis’.

Tell your doctor or pharmacist if any of the following side effects get serious or lasts longer than a
few days:
 • Feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting)
 • Stomach pains, indigestion or wind
 • Headaches
 • Feeling dizzy
 • Feeling itchy in the genital or vaginal area
Blood tests
Suprax can cause blood clots or small changes to the way the liver and kidney work. This would be shown
up in blood tests. This is not common and goes back to normal after stopping this medicine.

Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the Yellow Card Scheme at:
www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow Card in the Google Play or Apple App Store.
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine.

5.      How to store Suprax

Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and blister pack after EXP.
Store below 25°C.
Do not throw away medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.

6.      Contents of the pack and other information

What Suprax 200mg Tablets contain
• Each tablet contains 200mg of the active substance, cefixime.
• The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, pregelatinised starch, calcium hydrogen
   phosphate dihydrate, magnesium stearate, hypromellose, macrogol 6000 and titanium dioxide (E171).

What Suprax 200mg Tablets look like and content of the pack
Suprax is available as an off-white, biconvex, film coated tablet engraved with ‘ORO’ on one side. Suprax
is available in blister packs containing 1, 2, 7 or 14 tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.

Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Mercury Pharmaceuticals Ltd,
Dashwood House, 69 Old Broad Street, London, EC2M 1QS, United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0) 208 588 9131
Email: medicalinformation@advanzpharma.com

Manufacturer
Laboratórios Atral, S.A.
Rua da Estação, n.ºs 1 e 1A
2600-726 Castanheira do Ribatejo
Portugal
This leaflet does not contain all the information about your medicine. If you have any questions or are not
sure about anything, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

This leaflet was last revised in February 2026
