CEFIXIME- cefixime tablet
Rising Pharma Holdings, Inc.
----------


HIGHLIGHTS OF PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
These highlights do not include all the information needed to use CEFIXIME TABLETS safely
and effectively. See full prescribing information for CEFIXIME TABLETS.
CEFIXIME tablets, for oral use.
Initial U.S. Approval:1986
                                       INDICATIONS AND USAGE
Cefixime tablets are cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated in the treatment of adults and pediatric
patients weighing more than 45 kg or older than 12 years with the following infections:
   Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections (1.1)
   Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis (1.3)
   Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis (1.4)
   Uncomplicated Gonorrhea (cervical/urethral) (1.5)

To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefixime tablets
and other antibacterial drugs, cefixime tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or
strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. (1.6)
                                     DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
   Adults: 400 mg daily (2.1)
   Children: weighing more than 45 kg or older than 12 years should be treated with recommended adults
   dose (2.2)

                                  DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
    Film-coated, scored Tablets 400 mg (3)

                                          CONTRAINDICATIONS
    Contraindicated in patients with known allergy to cefixime or other cephalosporins. (4)

                                       WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
    Hypersensitivity reactions including shock and fatalities have been reported with cefixime. Discontinue
    use if a reaction occurs. (5.1)
    Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea: Evaluate if diarrhea occurs. (5.2)

                                         ADVERSE REACTIONS
Most common adverse reactions are gastrointestinal such as diarrhea (16%), nausea (7%), loose stools
(6%), abdominal pain (3%), dyspepsia (3%) and vomiting. (6)
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Rising Pharma Holdings, Inc. at 1-844-
874-7464 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.
                                         DRUG INTERACTIONS
   Elevated carbamazepine levels have been reported in postmarketing experience when cefixime is
   administered concomitantly. (7.1)
   Increased prothrombin time, with or without clinical bleeding, has been reported when cefixime is
   administered concomitantly with warfarin and anticoagulants. (7.2)

                                       USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
    Pediatric Use: Efficacy and safety in infants younger than 6 months of age have not been established.
    (8.4)
    Geriatric Use: Clinical studies did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to
    determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience
    has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. (8.5)
    Renal Impairment: Cefixime may be administered in the presence of impaired renal function. Dose
    adjustment is required in patients whose creatinine clearance is less than 60 mL/min. (8.6)

See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION.
                                                                                          Revised: 4/2026
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION: CONTENTS*
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE
  1.1 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections
  1.3 Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis
  1.4 Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis
  1.5 Uncomplicated Gonorrhea (cervical/urethral)
  1.6 Usage
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION
  2.1 Adults
  2.2 Pediatric Patients (weighing more than 45 kg or older than 12 years)
  2.3 Renal Impairment
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS
  5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions
  5.2 Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea
  5.3 Dose Adjustment in Renal Impairment
  5.4 Coagulation Effects
  5.5 Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
  6.1 Clinical Trials Experience
  6.2 Post-marketing Experience
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS
  7.1 Carbamazepine
  7.2 Warfarin and Anticoagulants
  7.3 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS
  8.1 Pregnancy
  8.2 Lactation
  8.4 Pediatric Use
  8.5 Geriatric Use
  8.6 Renal Impairment
10 OVERDOSAGE
11 DESCRIPTION
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY
  12.1 Mechanism of Action
  12.3 Pharmacokinetics
  12.4 Microbiology
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY
  13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
15 REFERENCES
16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION
  17.1 Information for Patients
* Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed.
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION


1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE

1.1 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections
Cefixime tablets are indicated in the treatment of adults and pediatric patients weighing
more than 45 kg or older than 12 years with uncomplicated urinary tract infections
caused by susceptible isolates of Escherichia coli and Proteus mirabilis.

1.3 Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis
Cefixime tablets are indicated in the treatment of adults and pediatric patients six
months of age or older with pharyngitis and tonsillitis caused by susceptible isolates of
Streptococcus pyogenes. (Note: Penicillin is the usual drug of choice in the treatment of
Streptococcus pyogenes infections. Cefixime tablets are generally effective in the
eradication of Streptococcus pyogenes from the nasopharynx; however, data
establishing the efficacy of cefixime tablets in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic
fever is not available.)

1.4 Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis
Cefixime tablets are indicated in the treatment of adults and pediatric patients weighing
more than 45 kg or older than 12 years with acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis
caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus
influenzae.

1.5 Uncomplicated Gonorrhea (cervical/urethral)
Cefixime tablets are indicated in the treatment of adults and pediatric patients weighing
more than 45 kg or older than 12 years with uncomplicated gonorrhea
(cervical/urethral) caused by susceptible isolates of Neisseria gonorrhoeae (penicillinase-
and non-penicillinase-producing isolates).

1.6 Usage
To reduce the development of drug resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of
cefixime tablets and other antibacterial drugs, cefixime tablets should be used only to
treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible
bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be
considered in selecting or modifying antimicrobial therapy. In the absence of such data,
local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of
therapy.


2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION

2.1 Adults
The recommended dose of cefixime is 400 mg daily. This may be given as a 400 mg
tablet daily or the 400 mg tablet may be split and given as one half tablet every 12
hours. For the treatment of uncomplicated cervical/urethral gonococcal infections, a
single oral dose of 400 mg is recommended. The tablet may be administered without
regard to food.
In the treatment of infections due to Streptococcus pyogenes, a therapeutic dosage of
cefixime should be administered for at least 10 days.

2.2 Pediatric Patients (weighing more than 45 kg or older than 12 years)
Children weighing more than 45 kg or older than 12 years should be treated with the
recommended adult dose. Clinical trials of otitis media were conducted with the chewable
tablets or suspension, and the chewable tablets or suspension results in higher peak
blood levels than the tablet when administered at the same dose.
Therefore, the tablet should not be substituted for the chewable tablets or suspension in
the treatment of otitis media [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]
In the treatment of infections due to Streptococcus pyogenes, a therapeutic dosage of
cefixime should be administered for at least 10 days.

2.3 Renal Impairment
Cefixime may be administered in the presence of impaired renal function. Normal dose
and schedule may be employed in patients with creatinine clearances of 60 mL/min or
greater. Refer to Table 2 for dose adjustments for adults with renal impairment. Neither
hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes significant amounts of drug from the body.
Table 2. Doses for Adults with Renal Impairment

        Renal Dysfunction                            Tablet
    Creatinine Clearance (mL/min)                   400 mg
                                                   Dose/Day
60 or greater                                     Normal dose
21 to 59 OR renal hemodialysis                   Not Appropriate
20 or less OR continuous peritoneal                 0.5 tablet
dialysis


3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS
Cefixime tablets, USP 400 mg are white to off-white, capsule shaped film coated tablets,
with debossed 'F' and '400' on either side of the score line on one side and other side
plain. These tablets provide 400mg of cefixime as trihydrate.


4 CONTRAINDICATIONS
Cefixime is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to cefixime or other
cephalosporins.
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

5.1 Hypersensitivity Reactions
Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions (including shock and fatalities) have been reported
with the use of cefixime.
Before therapy with cefixime is instituted, careful inquiry should be made to determine
whether the patient has had previous hypersensitivity reactions to cephalosporins,
penicillins, or other drugs. If this product is to be given to penicillin-sensitive patients,
caution should be exercised because cross hypersensitivity among beta-lactam
antibacterial drugs has been clearly documented and may occur in up to 10% of patients
with a history of penicillin allergy. If an allergic reaction to cefixime occurs, discontinue
the drug.

5.2 Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all
antibacterial agents, including cefixime, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to
fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon
leading to overgrowth of C. difficile.
C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD.
Hypertoxin producing isolates of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as
these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require
colectomy.CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following
antibacterial drug use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been
reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents.
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against
C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management,
protein supplementation, antibacterial drug treatment of C. difficile, and surgical
evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated.

5.3 Dose Adjustment in Renal Impairment
The dose of cefixime should be adjusted in patients with renal impairment as well as
those undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and hemodialysis
(HD). Patients on dialysis should be monitored carefully. [See Dosage and Administration
(2)].

5.4 Coagulation Effects
Cephalosporins, including cefixime, may be associated with a fall in prothrombin activity.
Those at risk include patients with renal or hepatic impairment, or poor nutritional state,
as well as patients receiving a protracted course of antimicrobial therapy, and patients
previously stabilized on anticoagulant therapy. Prothrombin time should be monitored in
patients at risk and exogenous vitamin K administered as indicated.

5.5 Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria
Prescribing cefixime in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection
is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of
drug-resistant bacteria.
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS

6.1 Clinical Trials Experience
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction
rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the
clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice.
The most commonly seen adverse reactions in U.S. trials of the tablet formulation were
gastrointestinal events, which were reported in 30% of adult patients on either the twice
daily or the once daily regimen. Five percent (5%) of patients in the U.S. clinical trials
discontinued therapy because of drug-related adverse reactions. Individual adverse
reactions included diarrhea 16%, loose or frequent stools 6%, abdominal pain 3%,
nausea 7%, dyspepsia 3%, and flatulence 4%.

6.2 Post-marketing Experience
The following adverse reactions have been reported following the post-approval use of
cefixime. Incidence rates were less than 1 in 50 (less than 2%).
Gastrointestinal
Several cases of documented pseudomembranous colitis were identified in clinical trials.
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after therapy.
Hypersensitivity Reactions
Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions (including shock and fatalities), skin rashes,
urticaria, drug fever, pruritus, angioedema, and facial edema. Erythema multiforme,
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and serum sickness-like reactions have been reported.
Hepatic
Transient elevations in SGPT, SGOT, alkaline phosphatase, hepatitis, jaundice.
Renal
Transient elevations in BUN or creatinine, acute renal failure.
Central Nervous System
Headaches, dizziness, seizures.
Hemic and Lymphatic System
Transient thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, prolongation in prothrombin time,
elevated LDH, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and eosinophilia.
Abnormal Laboratory Tests
Hyperbilirubinemia.
Other Adverse Reactions
Genital pruritus, vaginitis, candidiasis, toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Adverse Reactions Reported for Cephalosporin-class Drugs
Allergic reactions, superinfection, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, hepatic
dysfunction including cholestasis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage, and
colitis.
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, particularly in
patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced. [See Dosage and
 Administration (2) and Overdosage (10)]. If seizures associated with drug therapy
occur, the drug should be discontinued. Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically
indicated.


7 DRUG INTERACTIONS

7.1 Carbamazepine
Elevated carbamazepine levels have been reported in postmarketing experience when
cefixime is administered concomitantly. Drug monitoring may be of assistance in
detecting alterations in carbamazepine plasma concentrations.

7.2 Warfarin and Anticoagulants
Increased prothrombin time, with or without clinical bleeding, has been reported when
cefixime is administered concomitantly.

7.3 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions
A false-positive reaction for ketones in the urine may occur with tests using
nitroprusside but not with those using nitroferricyanide.
The administration of cefixime may result in a false-positive reaction for glucose in the
urine using Clinitest®**, Benedict's solution, or Fehling's solution. It is recommended that
glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions (such as Clinistix ®** or
TesTape®**) be used. A false-positive direct Coombs test has been reported during
treatment with other cephalosporins; therefore, it should be recognized that a positive
Coombs test may be due to the drug.
**Clinitest® and Clinistix ® are registered trademarks of Ames Division, Miles
Laboratories, Inc. Tes-Tape® is a registered trademark of Eli Lilly and Company.


8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS

8.1 Pregnancy
Risk Summary
Available data from published observational studies, case series, and case reports over
several decades with cephalosporin use, including cefixime, in pregnant women have not
established drug-associated risks of major birth defects, miscarriage, or adverse
maternal or fetal outcomes (see Data). Reproduction studies have been performed in
mice and rats at doses equivalent to 40 and 80 times, respectively, the adult human
recommended dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to cefixime
(see Data).
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated
population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or
other adverse outcomes.In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risks
of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and
15 to 20%, respectively.
Clinical Considerations
Disease-Associated Maternal and/or Embryo/Fetal Risk
Maternal gonorrhea may be associated with preterm birth, low neonatal birth weight,
chorioamnionitis, intrauterine growth restriction, small for gestational age and premature
rupture of membranes. Perinatal transmission of gonorrhea to the offspring can result
in infant blindness, joint infections, and bloodstream infections.
Data
Human Data
While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk, published data
from prospective cohort studies, case series, and case reports over several decades
have not identified a consistent association with cephalosporin use, including cefixime,
during pregnancy, and major birth defects, miscarriage, or other adverse maternal or
fetal outcomes. Available studies have methodological limitations, including small sample
size, retrospective data collection, and inconsistent comparator groups.
Animal data
The results of embryo-fetal development studies in mice and rats show that cefixime, at
doses up to 3200 mg/kg/day administered during the period of organogenesis did not
adversely affect development. In these studies, in mice and rats, cefixime did not affect
postnatal development or reproductive capacity of the F1 generation or fetal
development of the F2 generation. In an embryo-fetal development study in rabbits,
cefixime at doses of 3.2, 10 or 32 mg/kg given daily during the period of organogenesis
(gestation days 6 through 18) resulted in abortions and/or maternal deaths at doses >
10 mg/kg (typically associated with the administration of antibiotics in this species), but
no malformations were reported at lower doses. A pre- and post-natal development
study of cefixime at oral doses up to 3200 mg/kg/day in rats demonstrated no effect on
the duration of pregnancy, process of parturition, development and viability of offspring,
or reproductive capacity of the F1 generation and development of their fetuses (F2).

8.2 Lactation
Risk Summary
There are no available data on the presence of cefixime in human milk, the effects on the
 breastfed infant, or the effects on milk production. Cefixime is present in animal milk
(see Data). When a drug is present in animal milk, it is likely the drug will be present in
human milk. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be
considered along with the mother's clinical need for cefixime and any potential adverse
effects on the breastfed infant from cefixime or from the mother's underlying condition.
Data
In a study on disposition of cefixime in pregnant and lactating rats, continuous intra-
peritoneal infusion of 2.54 mg/kg/day of 14C-cefixime from days 10 to 14 postpartum
resulted in steady state plasma concentrations of radioactivity in the dams that were 70
times greater than in their nursing pups.
After 102 hours of drug infusion, total radioactivity in the body of the pups, including the
stomach and intestinal contents, was 1.5% of the 14C-cefixime estimated to be in the
mother's body at steady state1.

8.4 Pediatric Use
Safety and effectiveness of cefixime in pediatric patients younger than 6 months of age
have not been established. The incidence of gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including
diarrhea and loose stools, in the pediatric patients receiving the suspension, was
comparable to the incidence seen in adult patients receiving tablets.

8.5 Geriatric Use
Clinical studies did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to
determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects. Other reported
clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and
younger patients. A pharmacokinetic study in the elderly detected differences in
pharmacokinetic parameters [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. These differences were
small and do not indicate a need for dosage adjustment of the drug in the elderly.

8.6 Renal Impairment
The dose of cefixime should be adjusted in patients with renal impairment as well as
those undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and hemodialysis
(HD). Patients on dialysis should be monitored carefully. [See Dosage and Administration
(2.3)].


10 OVERDOSAGE
Gastric lavage may be indicated; otherwise, no specific antidote exists. Cefixime is not
removed in significant quantities from the circulation by hemodialysis or peritoneal
dialysis. Adverse reactions in small numbers of healthy adult volunteers receiving single
doses up to 2 g of cefixime did not differ from the profile seen in patients treated at the
recommended doses.


11 DESCRIPTION
Cefixime is a semisynthetic, cephalosporin antibacterial for oral administration.
Chemically, it is (6R,7R)-7-[2-(2-Amino-4-thiazolyl)glyoxylamido]-8-oxo-3-vinyl-5-thia-1-
azabicyclo[4.2.0]oct-2-ene-2-carboxylic acid, 72-(Z)-[O-(carboxy methyl) oxime]
trihydrate.
Molecular weight = 507.50 as the trihydrate. Chemical Formula is C16H15N5O 7S2.3H2O
The structural formula for cefixime is:
Cefixime is available for oral administration as 400 mg film coated tablets. Inactive
ingredients contained in the cefixime tablets, USP 400 mg are: dibasic calcium
phosphate, hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline
cellulose, polyethylene glycol, pregelatinized starch, titanium dioxide, and triacetin.


12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY

12.1 Mechanism of Action
Cefixime is a semisynthetic cephalosporin antibacterial drug [See Microbiology (12.4)].

12.3 Pharmacokinetics
Cefixime tablets, given orally, are about 40% to 50% absorbed whether administered
with or without food; however, time to maximal absorption is increased approximately
0.8 hours when administered with food. A single 200 mg tablet of cefixime produces an
average peak serum concentration of approximately 2 mcg/mL (range 1 to 4 mcg/mL); a
single 400 mg tablet produces an average peak concentration of approximately 3.7
mcg/mL (range 1.3 to 7.7 mcg/mL).
The area under the time versus concentration curve (AUC) is greater by approximately
10% to 25% with the oral suspension than with the tablet after doses of 100 to 400 mg,
when tested in normal adult volunteers. This increased absorption should be taken into
consideration if the oral suspension is to be substituted for the tablet. Because of the
lack of bioequivalence, tablets should not be substituted for oral suspension in the
treatment of otitis media [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Cross-over studies of
tablet versus suspension have not been performed in children.
The 400 mg capsule is bioequivalent to the 400 mg tablet under fasting conditions.
However, food reduces the absorption following administration of the capsule by
approximately 15% based on AUC and 25% based on Cmax.
Peak serum concentrations occur between 2 and 6 hours following oral administration
of a single 200 mg tablet or a single 400 mg tablet.
Distribution
Serum protein binding is concentration independent with a bound fraction of
approximately 65%. In a multiple dose study conducted with a research formulation
which is less bioavailable than the tablet , there was little accumulation of drug in serum
or urine after dosing for 14 days. Adequate data on CSF levels of cefixime are not
available.
Metabolism and Excretion
There is no evidence of metabolism of cefixime in vivo. Approximately 50% of the
absorbed dose is excreted unchanged in the urine in 24 hours. In animal studies, it was
noted that cefixime is also excreted in the bile in excess of 10% of the administered
dose. The serum half-life of cefixime in healthy subjects is independent of dosage form
and averages 3 to 4 hours but may range up to 9 hours in some normal volunteers.
Special Populations
Geriatrics: Average AUCs at steady state in elderly patients are approximately 40%
higher than average AUCs in other healthy adults.
Differences in the pharmacokinetic parameters between 12 young and 12 elderly
subjects who received 400 mg of cefixime once daily for 5 days are summarized as
follows:

  Pharmacokinetic Parameters (mean ± SD) for Cefixime in Both
                          Young and Elderly
Pharmacokinetic          Young                     Elderly
parameter
Cmax (mg/L)              4.74 ± 1.43               5.68 ± 1.83
Tmax (h)  *              3.9 ± 0.3                 4.3 ± 0.6
AUC (mg.h/L)  *          34.9 ± 12.2               49.5 ± 19.1
T1/2 (h)*                3.5 ± 0.6                 4.2 ± 0.4
Cave (mg/L) *            1.42 ± 0.50               1.99 ± 0.75
* Difference between age groups was significant. (p<0.05)



However, these increases were not clinically significant [See Dosage and Administration
(2)].
Renal Impairment: In subjects with moderate impairment of renal function (20 to 40
mL/min creatinine clearance), the average serum half-life of cefixime is prolonged to 6.4
hours. In severe renal impairment (5 to 20 mL/min creatinine clearance), the half-life
increased to an average of 11.5 hours. The drug is not cleared significantly from the
blood by hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. However, a study indicated that with doses
of 400 mg, patients undergoing hemodialysis have similar blood profiles as subjects with
creatinine clearances of 21 to 60 mL/min.

12.4 Microbiology
Mechanism of Action
As with other cephalosporins, the bactericidal action of cefixime results from inhibition of
cell wall synthesis. Cefixime is stable in the presence of certain beta-lactamase enzymes.
As a result, certain organisms resistant to penicillins and some cephalosporins due to
the presence of beta-lactamases may be susceptible to cefixime.
Resistance
Resistance to cefixime in isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Neisseria gonorrhoeae
is most often associated with alterations in penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs). Cefixime
may have limited activity against Enterobacteriaceae producing extended spectrum beta-
lactamases (ESBLs). Pseudomonas species, Enterococcus species, strains of Group D
streptococci, Listeria monocytogenes, most strains of staphylococci (including
methicillin-resistant strains), most strains of Enterobacter species, most strains of
Bacteroides fragilis, and most strains of Clostridium species are resistant to cefixime.
Antimicrobial Activity
Cefixime has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following
microorganisms, both in vitro and in clinical infections [see Indications and Usage (1)]:
Gram-positive Bacteria
Streptococcus pneumoniae
Streptococcus pyogenes
Gram-negative Bacteria
Escherichia coli
Haemophilus influenzae
Moraxella catarrhalis
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
Proteus mirabilis
The following in vitro data are available, but their clinical significance is unknown. At least
90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration
(MIC) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for cefixime against isolates of
similar genus or organism group. However, the efficacy of cefixime in treating clinical
infections caused by these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well-
controlled clinical trials.
Gram-positive Bacteria
Streptococcus agalactiae
Gram-negative Bacteria
Citrobacter malonaticus
Citrobacter diversus
Haemophilus parainfluenzae
Klebsiella oxytoca
Klebsiella pneumoniae
Pasteurella multocida
Proteus vulgaris
Providencia species
Salmonella species
Serratia marcescens
Shigella species
Susceptibility Testing
For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated
test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug, please see:
https://www.fda.gov/STIC.


13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY

13.1 Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
Lifetime studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been conducted.
Cefixime did not cause point mutations in bacteria or mammalian cells, DNA damage, or
chromosome damage in vitro and did not exhibit clastogenic potential in vivo in the
mouse micronucleus test. In the fertility and reproductive performance study in rats, no
difference between control and drug-treated animals was detected in mating behavior,
pregnancy rate, or litter parameters (determined at sacrifice on day 13 of pregnancy) at
oral doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day (25 times the adult therapeutic dose) administered to
males (for 68 days prior to pairing and during the cohabitation period) and females (for
14 days before pairing to weaning).


15 REFERENCES
1. Halperin-Walega, E. Batra VK, Tonelli AP, Barr A, Yacobi A. 'Disposition of Cefixime in
the Pregnant and Lactating Rat. Transfer to the Fetus and Nursing Pup'. Drug
Metabolism and Disposition. 1988:16(1):pp130–134.


16 HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING
Cefixime tablets, USP 400 mg are white to off-white, capsule shaped film coated tablets,
with debossed 'F' and '400' on either side of the score line on one side and other side
plain containing 400 mg of cefixime as the trihydrate and are supplied as follows:
NDC 64980-430-01               Bottle of 10 tablets with child-resistant closure
Store at 20 to 25°C (68 to 77°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature].


17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION

17.1 Information for Patients
Drug Resistance
Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs, including cefixime, should only be
used to treat bacterial infections. They do not treat viral infections (e.g., the common
cold). When cefixime is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection, patients should be told
that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy, the medication
should be taken exactly as directed. Skipping doses or not completing the full course of
therapy may: (1) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and (2)
increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by
cefixime or other antibacterial drugs in the future.
Diarrhea
Advise patients that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterial drugs which
usually ends when the antibacterial drug is discontinued. Sometimes after starting
treatment with antibacterial drugs, patients can develop watery and bloody stools (with
or without stomach cramps and fever) even as late as two or more months after having
taken the last dose of the antibacterial drug. If this occurs, patients should contact their
physician as soon as possible.
Manufactured in India by:
FDC Limited
Distributed by:
Rising Pharma Holdings, Inc.
East Brunswick, NJ 08816
Issued: 04/2025


PACKAGE LABEL.PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL
Cefixime Tablets, USP 400 mg
Rx only
NDC 64980-430-01: Bottle of 10 tablets with child-resistant closure




CEFIXIME
cefixime tablet


 Product Information
 Product Type               HUMAN PRESCRIPTION DRUG   Item Code (Source)     NDC:64980-430

 Route of Administration    ORAL
Active Ingredient/Active Moiety
                          Ingredient Name                                    Basis of Strength      Strength
CEFIXIME (UNII: 97I1C92E55) (CEFIXIME ANHYDROUS - UNII:XZ 7BG04GJX)         CEFIXIME ANHYDROUS     400 mg




Inactive Ingredients
                                      Ingredient Name                                             Strength
CELLULOSE, MICROCRYSTALLINE (UNII: OP1R32D61U)
DIBASIC CALCIUM PHOSPHATE DIHYDRATE (UNII: O7TSZ 97GEP)
HYPROMELLOSES (UNII: 3NXW29V3WO)
LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE (UNII: EWQ57Q8I5X)
MAGNESIUM STEARATE (UNII: 70097M6I30)
TITANIUM DIOXIDE (UNII: 15FIX9V2JP)
TRIACETIN (UNII: XHX3C3X673)
STARCH, CORN (UNII: O8232NY3SJ)
POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL, UNSPECIFIED (UNII: 3WJQ0SDW1A)




Product Characteristics
Color               WHITE (white to off-white)                      Score                       2 pieces
Shape               CAPSULE                                         Size                        18mm
Flavor                                                              Imprint Code                F;400
Contains




Packaging
                                                                      Marketing Start      Marketing End
# Item Code                    Package Description
                                                                          Date                 Date
    NDC:64980-    10 in 1 BOTTLE, PLASTIC; Type 0: Not a
1                                                                    12/12/2025
    430-01        Combination Product




Marketing Information
     Marketing         Application Number or Monograph                Marketing Start       Marketing End
     Category                       Citation                              Date                  Date
ANDA                 ANDA206358                                     12/12/2025




Labeler - Rising Pharma Holdings, Inc. (116880195)

Registrant - FDC Limited (650078413)

Establishment
    Name         Address          ID/FEI                            Business Operations
FDC Limited                    650651164         ANALYSIS(64980-430) , MANUFACTURE(64980-430)
Revised: 4/2026   Rising Pharma Holdings, Inc.
