Suprax 200mg Tablets - Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) - (emc) | 15047
We use cookies to improve your experience and to help us understand how our site is used. You can find out more about your options on our
Cookies page
.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
About Cookies
×
Most websites these days use cookies to store and retrieve information. Some of this information might be about you,
                your preferences or your device and is mostly used to help the website work in the way you expect.
This information doesn’t usually directly identify you but can give you a more personalized experience.
We will never sell any of your personally identifiable information, whether gathered using a cookie or otherwise.
We respect your right to privacy, so you can choose whether or not some cookies are enabled on our website.
                However, disabling some cookies can impact your experience and the services we are able to offer. For more information see our Cookie settings and Privacy Policy.
Essential Cookies (Required)
These cookies are essential for the website to work properly and can’t be turned off.
They don’t collect personal information.
We also use them to understand how the site is used.
You can choose to block these cookies in your browser, but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Analytics Cookies (Optional)
These cookies help us improve our website and keep content relevant.
We use third-party tools to analyse information gathered by cookies and understand how visitors use our website.
We only use information gathered by cookies internally. See our Privacy Policy.
You can turn these cookies off by clicking "Reject optional cookies", but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Menu
Home
Medicines
Browse medicine A-Z
Browse active ingredient A-Z
Medicines with black triangle
Discontinued medicines
RMM directory
Companies
Latest updates
About emc
Help
Log in
Sign up
Search emc: Enter medicine name or company
Start typing to retrieve search suggestions. When suggestions are available use up and down arrows to review and ENTER to select. Continue typing to refine.
Advanced search
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Report side effect
Report a suspected side effect or falsified product to the MHRA Yellow Card scheme.
Go to
site
Certified November 2025
Back to top
Suprax 200mg Tablets
Notify me of changes to this product
×
emc account functionality
Sign in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Active Ingredient:
cefixime
Company:
ADVANZ Pharma
See contact details
ATC code:
J01DD08
About Medicine
Prescription only medicine
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Healthcare Professionals (SmPC)
Patient Leaflet (PIL)
Letters to HCPs
This information is for use by healthcare professionals
Last updated on emc:
20 Jul 2026
Quick Links
Undesirable Effects
Pharmacological Properties
Interactions
Posology
Contraindications
Excipients
Storage precautions
Print SmPC information
Expand All
1. Name of the medicinal product
Suprax Tablets 200 mg
2. Qualitative and quantitative composition
Each tablet contains 200 mg cefixime (anhydrous).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. Pharmaceutical form
Convex, off-white, film-coated tablets engraved with 'ORO' on one side.
4. Clinical particulars
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Suprax is an orally active cephalosporin antibiotic which has marked
in vitro
bactericidal activity against a wide variety of Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms.
It is indicated for the treatment of the following acute infections when caused by susceptible micro-organisms:
Upper Respiratory Tract Infections (URTI):
e.g. otitis media; and other URTI where the causative organism is known or suspected to be resistant to other commonly used antibiotics, or where treatment failure may carry significant risk.
Lower Respiratory Tract Infection:
e.g. bronchitis.
Urinary Tract Infections:
e.g. cystitis, cystourethritis, uncomplicated pyelonephritis.
Clinical efficacy has been demonstrated in infections caused by commonly occurring pathogens including
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, Kliebsiella
species,
Haemophilus influenzae
(beta-lactamase positive and negative),
Branhamella catarrhalis
(beta-lactamase positive and negative) and
Enterobacter
species. Suprax is highly stable in the presence of beta-lactamase enzymes.
Most strains of enterococci (
Streptococcus faecalis
, group D Streptococci) and Staphylococci (including coagulase positive and negative strains and methicillin-resistant strains) are resistant to Suprax. In addition, most strains of
Pseudomonas, Bacteriodes fragalis, Listeria monocytogenes
and
Clostridia
are resistant to Suprax.
4.2 Posology and method of administration
The usual course of treatment is 7 days. This may be continued for up to 14 days if required.
Posology
Adults and Children over 10 years or weighing more than 50 kg:
The recommended dose is 200 – 400 mg daily according to the severity of infection, given either as a single dose or in two divided doses.
Children under 10 years:
Suprax Tablets 200 mg are not recommended for use in children under 10 years old. The safety and efficacy of cefixime has not been established in children less than 6 months.
Elderly:
Elderly patients may be given the same dose as recommended for adults. Renal function should be assessed, and dosage should be adjusted in severe renal impairment.
Renal impairment:
Suprax may be administered in the presence of impaired renal function. Normal dose and schedule may be given in patients with creatinine clearances of 20 ml/min or greater. In patients whose creatinine clearance is less than 20 ml/min, it is recommended that a dose of 200 mg once daily should not be exceeded. The dose and regimen for patients who are maintained on chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis or haemodialysis should follow the same recommendation as that for patients with creatinine clearances of less than 20 ml/min.
Method for administration
For oral administration. Absorption of Suprax is not significantly modified by the presence of food.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to cephalosporin antibiotics or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use
Encephalopathy
Beta-lactams, including cefixime, have been associated with encephalopathy risk (which may include convulsions, confusion, decreased consciousness, movement disorders), particularly in elderly patients, in patients with severe renal impairment or central nervous system disorders and in case of overdose. If cefixime-associated encephalopathy is suspected discontinuation should be considered. (see section 4.8 and 4.9)
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARS) including toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) have been reported in association with cefixime. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and monitored closely. Treatment should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions, or any other sign of skin hypersensitivity.
Suprax should be given with caution to patients who have shown hypersensitivity to other drugs.
Hypersensitivity to penicillins
As with other cephalosporins, cefixime should be given with caution to patients with a history of hypersensitivity to penicillin, as there is some evidence of partial cross-allergenicity between the penicillins and cephalosporins.
Patients have had severe reactions (including anaphylaxis) to both classes of drugs. If an allergic effect occurs with Suprax, the drug should be discontinued and the patient treated with appropriate agents if necessary.
Haemolytic anaemia
Drug-induced haemolytic anaemia, including severe cases with a fatal outcome, has been described for cephalosporins (as a class). The recurrence of haemolytic anaemia after re-administration of cephalosporins in a patient with a history of cephalosporin (including cefixime) –associated haemolytic anaemia has also been reported.
Acute renal failure
As with other cephalosporins, cefixime may cause acute renal failure including tubulointerstitial nephritis as an underlying pathological condition. When acute renal failure occurs, cefixime should be discontinued and appropriate therapy and/or measures should be taken.
Renal impairment
Suprax should be administered with caution in patients with markedly impaired renal function (see section 4.2).
Paediatric use
Safety of cefixime in premature or newborn infant has not been established (see section 4.2).
Antibiotic-associated colitis
Treatment with broad spectrum antibiotics alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia. Studies indicate that a toxin produced by
Clostridium difficile
is a primary cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhoea. Pseudomembranous colitis is associated with the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics (including macrolides, semi-synthetic penicillins, lincosamides and cephalosporins); it is therefore important to consider its diagnosis in patients who develop diarrhoea in association with the use of antibiotics. Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis may occur during or after antibiotic treatment.
Management of pseudomembranous colitis should include sigmoidoscopy, appropriate bacteriologic studies, fluids, electrolytes and protein supplementation. If the colitis does not improve after the drug has been discontinued, or if the symptoms are severe, oral vancomycin is the drug of choice for antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by
C. difficile
. Other causes of colitis should be excluded.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Anticoagulants
In common with other cephalosporins, increases in prothrombin times have been noted in a few patients. Care should therefore be taken in patients receiving anticoagulation therapy.
Cefixime should be administered with caution to patients receiving coumarin-type anticoagulants, e.g. warfarin potassium. Since cefixime may enhance effects of the anticoagulants, prolonged prothrombin time with or without bleeding may occur.
Other forms of interaction
A false positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with Benedict's or Fehling's solutions or with copper sulphate test tablets, but not with tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions.
A false positive direct Coombs test has been reported during treatment with cephalosporin antibiotics, therefore it should be recognised that a positive Coombs test may be due to the drug.
4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Reproduction studies have been performed in mice and rats at doses up to 400 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cefixime. In the rabbit, at doses up to 4 times the human dose, there was no evidence of a teratogenic effect; there was a high incidence of abortion and maternal death which is an expected consequence of the known sensitivity of rabbits to antibiotic-induced changes in the population of the microflora of the intestine. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Suprax should therefore not be used in pregnancy or in nursing mothers unless considered essential by the physician.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
In the case of side effects such as encephalopathy (which may include convulsion, confusion, decreased consciousness, movement disorders), the patient should not operate machines or drive a vehicle.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Suprax is generally well tolerated. The majority of adverse reactions observed in clinical trials were mild and self-limiting in nature.
The following adverse reaction (Preferred term# or equivalent) will be considered listed:
Blood and lymphatic system disorders:
Eosinophilia
Hypereosinophilia
Agranulocytosis
Leucopenia
Neutropenia
Granulocytopenia
Haemolytic anaemia
Thrombocytopenia
Thrombocytosis
Gastrointestinal disorders:
Abdominal pain
Diarrhoea*
Dyspepsia
Nausea
Vomiting
Flatulence
Hepatobiliary disorders:
Jaundice
Infections and infestations:
Pseudomembranous colitis
Vaginitis
Investigations:
Aspartate aminotransferase increased
Alanine aminotransferase increased
Blood bilirubin increased
Blood urea increased
Blood creatinine increased
Nervous system disorders:
Dizziness
Headache
Cases of convulsions have been reported with cephalosporins including cefixime (frequency not known)
**
Beta-lactams, including cefixime, have been associated with encephalopathy risk (which may include convulsions, confusion, decreased consciousness, movement disorders), particularly in elderly patients, in patients with severe renal impairment or central nervous system disorders and in case of overdose. (frequency not known)
**
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders:
Dyspnoea
Renal and urinary disorders:
Acute renal failure with tubulointerstitial nephritis (see section 4.4).
Immune system disorders:
Anaphylactic reaction
Angio-oedema
Serum sickness-like reaction
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders:
Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS)
Erythema multiforme
Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Toxic epidermal necrolysis
Urticaria
Rash
Pruritus
Acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis(AGEP) (see section 4.4)
General disorders and administrative site conditions:
Drug Fever
Arthralgia
Pyrexia
Face oedema
Genital pruritus
The above mentioned listed adverse reactions have been observed during clinical studies and/or during marketed use.
# Preferred term in MedDRA (v.14.0)
*Diarrhoea has been more commonly associated with higher doses. Some cases of moderate to severe diarrhoea have been reported; this has occasionally warranted cessation of therapy. Suprax should be discontinued if marked diarrhoea occurs.
**Cannot be estimated from available data
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via Yellow Card Scheme at: www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow Card in the Google Play or Apple App Store.
4.9 Overdose
There is a risk of encephalopathy associated with beta-lactam antibiotics such as cefixime, particularly in case of overdose or renal impairment.
Adverse reactions seen at dose levels up to 2 g Suprax in normal subjects did not differ from the profile seen in patients treated at the recommended doses. Cefixime is not removed from the circulation in significant quantities by dialysis.
No specific antidote exists. General supportive measures are recommended.
5. Pharmacological properties
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: third generation cephalosporin, ATC code: J01DD08
Cefixime is an oral third generation cephalosporin which has marked in vitro bactericidal activity against a wide variety of Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms.
Clinical efficacy has been demonstrated in infections caused by commonly occurring pathogens including
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella
species,
Haemophilus influenzae
(beta-lactamase positive and negative),
Branhamella catarrhalis
(beta-lactamase positive and negative) and
Enterobacter
species. It is highly stable in the presence of beta-lactamase enzymes.
Most strains of enterococci (
Streptococcus faecalis
, group D Streptococci) and Staphylococci (including coagulase positive and negative strains and methicillin-resistant strains) are resistant to cefixime. In addition, most strains of
Pseudomonas, Bacteroides fragilis, Listeria monocytogenes
and
Clostridia
are resistant to cefixime.
5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties
The absolute oral bioavailability of cefixime is in the range of 22 – 54%. Absorption is not significantly modified by the presence of food. Cefixime may therefore be given without regard to meals.
From
in vitro
studies, serum or urine concentrations of 1 mcg/mL or greater were considered to be adequate for most common pathogens against which cefixime is active. Typically, the peak serum levels following the recommended adult or paediatric doses are between 1.5 – 3 mcg/ml. Little or no accumulation of cefixime occurs following multiple dosing.
The pharmacokinetics of cefixime in healthy elderly (age > 64 years) and young volunteers (11 – 35) compared the administration of 400 mg doses once daily for 5 days. Mean C
max
and AUC values were slightly greater in the elderly. Elderly patients may be given the same dose as the general population.
Cefixime is predominantly eliminated as unchanged drug in the urine. Glomerular filtration is considered the predominant mechanism. Metabolites of cefixime have not been isolated from human serum or urine.
Serum protein binding is well characterised for human and animal sera; cefixime is almost exclusively bound to the albumin fraction, the mean free fraction being approximately 30%. Protein binding of cefixime is only concentration dependent in human serum at very high concentrations which are not seen following clinical dosing.
Transfer of
14
C-labelled cefixime from lactating rats to their nursing offspring through breast milk was quantitatively small (approximately 1.5% of the mothers' body content of cefixime in the pup). No data are available on secretion of cefixime in human breast milk. Placental transfer of cefixime was small in pregnant rats dosed with labelled cefixime.
5.3 Preclinical safety data
There are no pre-clinical data of relevance to the prescriber which are additional to that already included in other sections of the Summary of Product Characteristics.
6. Pharmaceutical particulars
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet cores: microcrystalline cellulose, pregelatinised starch, calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate and magnesium stearate.
Tablet coating: hypromellose, Macrogol 6000 and titanium dioxide.
6.2 Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3 Shelf life
2 years
6.4 Special precautions for storage
Do not store above 25°C.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Colourless PVC- PVDC/aluminium foil blister packs – pack sizes of 1, 2, 7 and 14.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling
No special requirements for disposal.
7. Marketing authorisation holder
Mercury Pharmaceuticals Ltd,
Dashwood House,
69 Old Broad Street,
London, EC2M 1QS,
United Kingdom.
8. Marketing authorisation number(s)
PL 12762/0684
9. Date of first authorisation/renewal of the authorisation
Date of first authorisation: 12 August 1998
Date of latest renewal: 24 June 2003
10. Date of revision of the text
7 July 2026
LEGAL CATEGORY
POM
ADVANZ Pharma
Address
Dashwood House, 69 Old Broad Street, London, EC2M 1QS, UK
Telephone
+44 (0)208 588 9131
Medical Information Direct Line
+44 (0)208 588 9131
Medical Information e-mail
[email protected]
WWW
www.advanzpharma.com
Customer Care direct line
+44 (0)208 588 9273
Medical Information Website
https://medicalinformation.advanzpharma.com/
Contact us
Links
Accessibility
Legal and privacy notice
Cookie notice
Cookie Settings
Glossary
Site Maps
Delivered to you by
