Lyrica 75 mg hard capsules - Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) - (emc) | 10302
We use cookies to improve your experience and to help us understand how our site is used. You can find out more about your options on our
Cookies page
.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
About Cookies
×
Most websites these days use cookies to store and retrieve information. Some of this information might be about you,
                your preferences or your device and is mostly used to help the website work in the way you expect.
This information doesn’t usually directly identify you but can give you a more personalized experience.
We will never sell any of your personally identifiable information, whether gathered using a cookie or otherwise.
We respect your right to privacy, so you can choose whether or not some cookies are enabled on our website.
                However, disabling some cookies can impact your experience and the services we are able to offer. For more information see our Cookie settings and Privacy Policy.
Essential Cookies (Required)
These cookies are essential for the website to work properly and can’t be turned off.
They don’t collect personal information.
We also use them to understand how the site is used.
You can choose to block these cookies in your browser, but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Analytics Cookies (Optional)
These cookies help us improve our website and keep content relevant.
We use third-party tools to analyse information gathered by cookies and understand how visitors use our website.
We only use information gathered by cookies internally. See our Privacy Policy.
You can turn these cookies off by clicking "Reject optional cookies", but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Menu
Home
Medicines
Browse medicine A-Z
Browse active ingredient A-Z
Medicines with black triangle
Discontinued medicines
RMM directory
Companies
Latest updates
About emc
Help
Log in
Sign up
Search emc: Enter medicine name or company
Start typing to retrieve search suggestions. When suggestions are available use up and down arrows to review and ENTER to select. Continue typing to refine.
Advanced search
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Report side effect
Report a suspected side effect or falsified product to the MHRA Yellow Card scheme.
Go to
site
Certified November 2025
Back to top
Lyrica 75 mg hard capsules
Notify me of changes to this product
×
emc account functionality
Sign in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Active Ingredient:
pregabalin
Company:
Viatris (formerly Mylan or Upjohn)
See contact details
ATC code:
N02BF02
About Medicine
Prescription only medicine
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Healthcare Professionals (SmPC)
Patient Leaflet (PIL)
This information is for use by healthcare professionals
Last updated on emc:
13 May 2026
Quick Links
Undesirable Effects
Pharmacological Properties
Interactions
Posology
Contraindications
Excipients
Storage precautions
Print SmPC information
Expand All
1. Name of the medicinal product
Lyrica 75 mg hard capsules
2. Qualitative and quantitative composition
Each hard capsule contains 75 mg of pregabalin.
Excipients with known effect
Each hard capsule also contains 8.25 mg lactose monohydrate.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. Pharmaceutical form
Hard capsules
White and orange, marked “VTRS” on the cap and “PGN 75” on the body with black ink.
4. Clinical particulars
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Neuropathic pain
Lyrica is indicated for the treatment of peripheral and central neuropathic pain in adults.
Epilepsy
Lyrica is indicated as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation.
Generalised anxiety disorder
Lyrica is indicated for the treatment of Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD) in adults.
4.2 Posology and method of administration
Posology
The dose range is 150 to 600 mg per day given in either two or three divided doses.
Prior to starting treatment with pregabalin, a discussion should be held with patients to put in place a strategy for ending treatment with pregabalin in order to minimise the risk of dependence, addiction and drug withdrawal syndrome (see section 4.4).
Treatment should be given for the shortest possible duration. If this medicine is being used for the treatment of epilepsy this medicine should be used for as long as the prescriber considers it necessary.
Neuropathic pain
Pregabalin treatment can be started at a dose of 150 mg per day given as two or three divided doses. Based on individual patient response and tolerability, the dose may be increased to 300 mg per day after an interval of 3 to 7 days, and if needed, to a maximum dose of 600 mg per day after an additional 7-day interval.
Epilepsy
Pregabalin treatment can be started with a dose of 150 mg per day given as two or three divided doses. Based on individual patient response and tolerability, the dose may be increased to 300 mg per day after 1 week. The maximum dose of 600 mg per day may be achieved after an additional week.
Generalised anxiety disorder
The dose range is 150 to 600 mg per day given as two or three divided doses. The need for treatment should be reassessed regularly.
Pregabalin treatment can be started with a dose of 150 mg per day. Based on individual patient response and tolerability, the dose may be increased to 300 mg per day after 1 week. Following an additional week the dose may be increased to 450 mg per day. The maximum dose of 600 mg per day may be achieved after an additional week.
Discontinuation of pregabalin
In accordance with current clinical practice, if pregabalin has to be discontinued, it is recommended this should be done gradually considering individual patients' dosing regime and time taken to reach the effective therapeutic dose, e.g. over a minimum of 1 week for 150-300 mg/day or a minimum of 3 weeks for 600 mg/day, independent of the indication (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).
Renal impairment
Pregabalin is eliminated from the systemic circulation primarily by renal excretion as unchanged drug. As pregabalin clearance is directly proportional to creatinine clearance (see section 5.2), dose reduction in patients with compromised renal function must be individualised according to creatinine clearance (CL
cr
), as indicated in Table 1 determined using the following formula:
Pregabalin is removed effectively from plasma by haemodialysis (50% of drug in 4 hours). For patients receiving haemodialysis, the pregabalin daily dose should be adjusted based on renal function. In addition to the daily dose, a supplementary dose should be given immediately following every 4 hour haemodialysis treatment (see Table 1).
Table 1. Pregabalin Dose Adjustment Based on Renal Function
Creatinine clearance (CL
cr
)
(mL/min)
Total pregabalin daily dose*
Dose regimen
Starting dose (mg/day)
Maximum dose (mg/day)
≥ 60
150
600
BID or TID
≥ 30 - < 60
75
300
BID or TID
≥ 15 - < 30
25 – 50
150
Once Daily or BID
< 15
25
75
Once Daily
Supplementary dosage following haemodialysis (mg)
25
100
Single dose
+
TID = Three divided doses
BID = Two divided doses
* Total daily dose (mg/day) should be divided as indicated by dose regimen to provide mg/dose
+
Supplementary dose is a single additional dose
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is required for patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Lyrica in children below the age of 12 years and in adolescents (12-17 years of age) have not been established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be made.
Elderly
Elderly patients may require a dose reduction of pregabalin due to a decreased renal function (see section 5.2).
Method of administration
Lyrica may be taken with or without food.
Lyrica is for oral use only.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use
Diabetic patients
In accordance with current clinical practice, some diabetic patients who gain weight on pregabalin treatment may need to adjust hypoglycaemic medicinal products.
Hypersensitivity reactions
There have been reports in the postmarketing experience of hypersensitivity reactions, including cases of angioedema. Pregabalin should be discontinued immediately if symptoms of angioedema, such as facial, perioral, or upper airway swelling occur.
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs)
SCARs including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be life-threatening or fatal, have been reported rarely in association with pregabalin treatment. At the time of prescription patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin reactions. If signs and symptoms suggestive of these reactions appear, pregabalin should be withdrawn immediately and an alternative treatment considered (as appropriate).
Dizziness, somnolence, loss of consciousness, confusion and mental impairment
Pregabalin treatment has been associated with dizziness and somnolence, which could increase the occurrence of accidental injury (fall) in the elderly population. There have also been postmarketing reports of loss of consciousness, confusion and mental impairment. Therefore, patients should be advised to exercise caution until they are familiar with the potential effects of the medicinal product.
Vision-related effects
In controlled trials, a higher proportion of patients treated with pregabalin reported blurred vision than did patients treated with placebo which resolved in a majority of cases with continued dosing. In the clinical studies where ophthalmologic testing was conducted, the incidence of visual acuity reduction and visual field changes was greater in pregabalin-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients; the incidence of fundoscopic changes was greater in placebo-treated patients (see section 5.1).
In the postmarketing experience, visual adverse reactions have also been reported, including loss of vision, visual blurring or other changes of visual acuity, many of which were transient. Discontinuation of pregabalin may result in resolution or improvement of these visual symptoms.
Renal failure
Cases of renal failure have been reported and in some cases discontinuation of pregabalin did show reversibility of this adverse reaction.
Withdrawal of concomitant anti-epileptic medicinal products
There are insufficient data for the withdrawal of concomitant anti-epileptic medicinal products, once seizure control with pregabalin in the add-on situation has been reached, in order to reach monotherapy on pregabalin.
Congestive heart failure
There have been postmarketing reports of congestive heart failure in some patients receiving pregabalin. These reactions are mostly seen in elderly cardiovascular compromised patients during pregabalin treatment for a neuropathic indication. Pregabalin should be used with caution in these patients. Discontinuation of pregabalin may resolve the reaction.
Treatment of central neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury
In the treatment of central neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury the incidence of adverse reactions in general, central nervous system adverse reactions and especially somnolence was increased. This may be attributed to an additive effect due to concomitant medicinal products (e.g. anti-spasticity agents) needed for this condition. This should be considered when prescribing pregabalin in this condition.
Respiratory depression
There have been reports of severe respiratory depression in relation to pregabalin use. Patients with compromised respiratory function, respiratory or neurological disease, renal impairment, concomitant use of CNS depressants and the elderly may be at higher risk of experiencing this severe adverse reaction. Dose adjustments may be necessary in these patients (see section 4.2).
Suicidal ideation and behaviour
Suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients treated with anti-epileptic agents in several indications. A meta-analysis of randomised placebo controlled studies of anti-epileptic drugs has also shown a small increased risk of suicidal ideation and behaviour. The mechanism of this risk is not known. Cases of suicidal ideation and behaviour have been observed in patients treated with pregabalin in the postmarketing experience (see section 4.8). An epidemiological study using a self‑controlled study design (comparing treatment periods with non-treatment periods within an individual) showed evidence of an increased risk of new onset of suicidal behaviour and death by suicide in patients treated with pregabalin.
Patients (and caregivers of patients) should be advised to seek medical advice should signs of suicidal ideation or behaviour emerge. Patients should be monitored for signs of suicidal ideation and behaviour and appropriate treatment should be considered. Discontinuation of pregabalin treatment should be considered in case of suicidal ideation and behaviour.
Reduced lower gastrointestinal tract function
There are postmarketing reports of events related to reduced lower gastrointestinal tract function (e.g. intestinal obstruction, paralytic ileus, constipation) when pregabalin was co-administered with medications that have the potential to produce constipation, such as opioid analgesics. When pregabalin and opioids will be used in combination, measures to prevent constipation may be considered (especially in female patients and elderly).
Concomitant use with opioids
Caution is advised when prescribing pregabalin concomitantly with opioids due to risk of CNS depression (see section 4.5). In a case‑control study of opioid users, those patients who took pregabalin concomitantly with an opioid had an increased risk for opioid-related death compared to opioid use alone (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 1.68 [95% CI, 1.19 – 2.36]). This increased risk was observed at low doses of pregabalin (≤ 300 mg, aOR 1.52 [95% CI, 1.04 – 2.22]) and there was a trend for a greater risk at high doses of pregabalin (> 300 mg, aOR 2.51 [95% CI 1.24 – 5.06]).
Drug dependence, tolerance and potential for abuse
Pregabalin can cause drug dependence, which may occur at therapeutic doses. Cases of abuse and misuse have been reported. Drug addiction comprises behavioural, cognitive and physiological phenomena that may include a strong desire to take the drug, difficulties in controlling drug use and possible tolerance or physical dependence. Physical dependence is a state that develops as a result of physiological adaptation in response to repeated drug use, which manifests as withdrawal signs and symptoms after abrupt discontinuation or a significant dose reduction of a drug. Addiction and dependence are related but distinct presentations and in discussing these themes, terminology that apportion blame to the individual should be avoided.
For all patients, prolonged use of this product may lead to drug dependence and addiction but can occur with short-term use at recommended therapeutic doses. The risks are increased in individuals with current or past history of substance misuse disorder (including alcohol misuse) or mental health disorder (e.g., major depression).
Additional support and monitoring may be necessary when prescribing for patients at risk of drug misuse.
A comprehensive patient history should be taken to document concomitant medications, including over-the-counter medicines and medicines obtained on-line, and past and present medical and psychiatric conditions.
Patients may find that treatment is less effective with chronic use and express a need to increase the dose to obtain the same level of symptom control as initially experienced. Patients may also supplement their treatment with additional medications to achieve the same effect. These could be signs that the patient is developing tolerance. The risks of developing tolerance should be explained to the patient.
Overuse or misuse may result in overdose and/or death. It is important that patients only use medicines that are prescribed for them at the dose they have been prescribed and do not give this medicine to anyone else.
Patients should be closely monitored for signs of misuse, abuse, or addiction.
The clinical need for treatment with pregabalin should be reviewed regularly, with frequent assessments of patients being undertaken during the course of their treatment.
Drug withdrawal syndrome and Withdrawal symptoms
Prior to starting treatment with pregabalin, a discussion should be held with patients to explain the risk of dependence, addiction, and drug withdrawal syndrome. A withdrawal strategy for ending treatment with pregabalin should also be put in place with the patient before starting treatment (there may be exceptions to this in specific clinical situations such as symptom management in end of life palliative care, and for use in epilepsy).
Drug withdrawal syndrome may occur upon abrupt cessation of therapy or dose reduction. When a patient no longer requires therapy, it is advisable to taper the dose gradually to minimise symptoms of withdrawal. Tapering from a high dose may take in excess of weeks or months. Patients should be informed of this when the medication is first prescribed.
Pregabalin should not be discontinued abruptly.
After discontinuation of short-term and long-term treatment with pregabalin, withdrawal symptoms have been observed. The following symptoms have been reported: insomnia, headache, nausea, anxiety, diarrhoea, flu syndrome, nervousness, depression, suicidal ideation, pain, convulsion, hyperhidrosis and dizziness. The occurrence of withdrawal symptoms following discontinuation of pregabalin may indicate drug dependence (see section 4.8). The patient should be informed about this at the start of the treatment.
The reduction schedule for a patient should be tailored to the individual and should be modified to allow intolerable withdrawal symptoms to improve before making the next reduction. If using a published withdrawal schedule, apply it flexibly to accommodate the person's preferences, changes to their circumstances and the response to dose reductions.
Reduce the dose by a fixed amount at each decrement, unless clinical risk is such that rapid withdrawal is needed. If pregabalin should be discontinued, it is recommended this should be done gradually considering individual patients' dosing regime and time taken to reach the therapeutic dose, e.g. over a minimum of 1 week for 150- 300 mg/day or a minimum of 3 weeks for 600 mg/day, independent of the indication (see section 4.2).
If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level.
Convulsions, including status epilepticus and grand mal convulsions, may occur during pregabalin use or shortly after discontinuing pregabalin.
Concerning discontinuation of long-term treatment of pregabalin, data suggest that the incidence and severity of withdrawal symptoms may be dose‑related.
Encephalopathy
Cases of encephalopathy have been reported, mostly in patients with underlying conditions that may precipitate encephalopathy.
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception
Lyrica use in the first‑trimester of pregnancy may cause major birth defects in the unborn child. If women take this drug during pregnancy, there is a risk that their newborn infants will experience neonatal withdrawal syndrome. Pregabalin should not be used during pregnancy unless the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk to the foetus. Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment (see section 4.6).
Lactose intolerance
Lyrica contains lactose monohydrate. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.
Sodium content
Lyrica contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per hard capsule. Patients on low sodium diets can be informed that this medicinal product is essentially 'sodium-free'.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Since pregabalin is predominantly excreted unchanged in the urine, undergoes negligible metabolism in humans (< 2% of a dose recovered in urine as metabolites), does not inhibit drug metabolism
in vitro
, and is not bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely to produce, or be subject to, pharmacokinetic interactions.
In vivo
studies and population pharmacokinetic analysis
Accordingly, in
in vivo
studies no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed between pregabalin and phenytoin, carbamazepine, valproic acid, lamotrigine, gabapentin, lorazepam, oxycodone or ethanol. Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that oral antidiabetics, diuretics, insulin, phenobarbital, tiagabine and topiramate had no clinically significant effect on pregabalin clearance.
Oral contraceptives, norethisterone and/or ethinyl oestradiol
Co-administration of pregabalin with the oral contraceptives norethisterone and/or ethinyl oestradiol does not influence the steady-state pharmacokinetics of either substance.
Central nervous system influencing medical products
Pregabalin may potentiate the effects of ethanol and lorazepam.
In the postmarketing experience, there are reports of respiratory failure, coma and deaths in patients taking pregabalin and opioids and/or other central nervous system (CNS) depressant medicinal products. Pregabalin appears to be additive in the impairment of cognitive and gross motor function caused by oxycodone.
Interactions and the elderly
No specific pharmacodynamic interaction studies were conducted in elderly volunteers. Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment (see section 4.4).
Pregnancy
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).
Pregabalin has been shown to cross the placenta in rats (see section 5.2). Pregabalin may cross the human placenta.
Major congenital malformations
Data from a Nordic observational study of more than 2700 pregnancies exposed to pregabalin in the first trimester showed a higher prevalence of major congenital malformations (MCM) among the paediatric population (live or stillborn) exposed to pregabalin compared to the unexposed population (5.9% vs. 4.1%).
The risk of MCM among the paediatric population exposed to pregabalin in the first trimester was slightly higher compared to unexposed population (adjusted prevalence ratio and 95% confidence interval: 1.14 (0.96-1.35)), and compared to population exposed to lamotrigine (1.29 (1.01–1.65)) or to duloxetine (1.39 (1.07–1.82)).
The analyses on specific malformations showed higher risks for malformations of the nervous system, the eye, orofacial clefts, urinary malformations and genital malformations, but numbers were small and estimates imprecise.
Lyrica should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary (if the benefit to the mother clearly outweighs the potential risk to the foetus).
Breast-feeding
Pregabalin is excreted into human milk (see section 5.2). The effect of pregabalin on newborns/infants is unknown. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast‑feeding or to discontinue pregabalin therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.
Fertility
There are no clinical data on the effects of pregabalin on female fertility.
In a clinical trial to assess the effect of pregabalin on sperm motility, healthy male subjects were exposed to pregabalin at a dose of 600 mg/day. After 3 months of treatment, there were no effects on sperm motility.
A fertility study in female rats has shown adverse reproductive effects. Fertility studies in male rats have shown adverse reproductive and developmental effects. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Lyrica may have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Lyrica may cause dizziness and somnolence and therefore may influence the ability to drive or use machines. Patients are advised not to drive, operate complex machinery or engage in other potentially hazardous activities until it is known whether this medicinal product affects their ability to perform these activities.
4.8 Undesirable effects
The pregabalin clinical programme involved over 8,900 patients exposed to pregabalin, of whom over 5,600 were in double-blind placebo controlled trials. The most commonly reported adverse reactions were dizziness and somnolence. Adverse reactions were usually mild to moderate in intensity. In all controlled studies, the discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 12% for patients receiving pregabalin and 5% for patients receiving placebo. The most common adverse reactions resulting in discontinuation from pregabalin treatment groups were dizziness and somnolence.
In table 2 below all adverse reactions, which occurred at an incidence greater than placebo and in more than one patient, are listed by class and frequency (very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
The adverse reactions listed may also be associated with the underlying disease and/or concomitant medicinal products.
In the treatment of central neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury the incidence of adverse reactions in general, CNS adverse reactions and especially somnolence was increased (see section 4.4).
Additional reactions reported from postmarketing experience are included in italics in the list below.
Table 2. Pregabalin Adverse Drug Reactions
System Organ Class
Adverse drug reactions
Infections and infestations
Common
Nasopharyngitis
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Uncommon
Neutropaenia
Immune system disorders
Uncommon
Hypersensitivity
Rare
Angioedema, allergic reaction
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common
Appetite increased
Uncommon
Anorexia, hypoglycaemia
Psychiatric disorders
Common
Euphoric mood, confusion, irritability, disorientation, insomnia, libido decreased
Uncommon
Hallucination, panic attack, restlessness, agitation, depression, depressed mood, elevated mood,
aggression
, mood swings, depersonalisation, word finding difficulty, abnormal dreams, libido increased, anorgasmia, apathy
Rare
Disinhibition, suicidal behaviour, suicidal ideation
Not known
Drug dependence (see section 4.4)
Nervous system disorders
Very Common
Dizziness, somnolence, headache
Common
Ataxia, coordination abnormal, tremor, dysarthria, amnesia, memory impairment, disturbance in attention, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, sedation, balance disorder, lethargy
Uncommon
Syncope, stupor, myoclonus,
loss of consciousness
, psychomotor hyperactivity, dyskinesia, dizziness postural, intention tremor, nystagmus, cognitive disorder,
mental impairment
, speech disorder, hyporeflexia, hyperaesthesia, burning sensation, ageusia,
malaise
Rare
Convulsions
, parosmia, hypokinesia, dysgraphia, parkinsonism
Eye disorders
Common
Vision blurred, diplopia
Uncommon
Peripheral vision loss, visual disturbance, eye swelling, visual field defect, visual acuity reduced, eye pain, asthenopia, photopsia, dry eye, lacrimation increased, eye irritation
Rare
Vision loss
,
keratitis
, oscillopsia, altered visual depth perception, mydriasis, strabismus, visual brightness
Ear and labyrinth disorders
Common
Vertigo
Uncommon
Hyperacusis
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon
Tachycardia, atrioventricular block first degree, sinus bradycardia,
congestive heart failure
Rare
QT prolongation
, sinus tachycardia, sinus arrhythmia
Vascular disorders
Uncommon
Hypotension, hypertension, hot flushes, flushing, peripheral coldness
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Uncommon
Dyspnoea, epistaxis, cough, nasal congestion, rhinitis, snoring, nasal dryness
Rare
Pulmonary oedema
, throat tightness
Not known
Respiratory depression
Gastrointestinal disorders
Common
Vomiting,
nausea
, constipation,
diarrhoea
, flatulence, abdominal distension, dry mouth
Uncommon
Gastrooesophageal reflux disease, salivary hypersecretion, hypoaesthesia oral
Rare
Ascites, pancreatitis,
swollen tongue
, dysphagia
Hepatobiliary disorders
Uncommon
Elevated liver enzymes*
Rare
Jaundice
Very rare
Hepatic failure, hepatitis
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Uncommon
Rash papular, urticaria, hyperhidrosis,
pruritus
Rare
Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens‑Johnson syndrome
, cold sweat
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
Common
Muscle cramp, arthralgia, back pain, pain in limb, cervical spasm
Uncommon
Joint swelling, myalgia, muscle twitching, neck pain, muscle stiffness
Rare
Rhabdomyolysis
Renal and urinary disorders
Uncommon
Urinary incontinence, dysuria
Rare
Renal failure, oliguria,
urinary retention
Reproductive system and breast disorders
Common
Erectile dysfunction
Uncommon
Sexual dysfunction, ejaculation delayed, dysmenorrhoea, breast pain
Rare
Amenorrhoea, breast discharge, breast enlargement,
gynaecomastia
General disorders and administration site conditions
Common
Oedema peripheral, oedema, gait abnormal, fall, feeling drunk, feeling abnormal, fatigue
Uncommon
Generalised oedema,
face oedema
, chest tightness, pain, pyrexia, thirst, chills, asthenia
Investigations
Common
Weight increased
Uncommon
Blood creatine phosphokinase increased, blood glucose increased, platelet count decreased, blood creatinine increased, blood potassium decreased, weight decreased
Rare
White blood cell count decreased
* Alanine aminotransferase increased (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase increased (AST).
After discontinuation of short-term and long-term treatment with pregabalin withdrawal symptoms have been observed. The following symptoms have been reported: insomnia, headache, nausea, anxiety, diarrhoea, flu syndrome, convulsions, nervousness, depression, suicidal ideation, pain
,
hyperhidrosis and dizziness. These symptoms may indicate drug dependence. The patient should be informed about this at the start of the treatment. Concerning discontinuation of long-term treatment of pregabalin, data suggest that the incidence and severity of withdrawal symptoms may be dose‑related (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Paediatric population
The pregabalin safety profile observed in five paediatric studies in patients with partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation (12‑week efficacy and safety study in patients 4 to 16 years of age, n=295; 14‑day efficacy and safety study in patients 1 month to younger than 4 years of age, n=175; pharmacokinetic and tolerability study, n=65; and two 1 year open label follow on safety studies, n=54 and n=431) was similar to that observed in the adult studies of patients with epilepsy. The most common adverse events observed in the 12‑week study with pregabalin treatment were somnolence, pyrexia, upper respiratory tract infection, increased appetite, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse events observed in the 14‑day study with pregabalin treatment were somnolence, upper respiratory tract infection, and pyrexia (see sections 4.2, 5.1 and 5.2).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the Yellow Card Scheme at: www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow Card in the Google Play or Apple App Store.
4.9 Overdose
In the postmarketing experience, the most commonly reported adverse reactions observed when pregabalin was taken in overdose included somnolence, confusional state, agitation, and restlessness. Seizures were also reported.
In rare occasions, cases of coma have been reported.
Patients should be informed of the signs and symptoms of overdose and to ensure that family and friends are also aware of these signs and to seek immediate medical help if they occur.
Treatment of pregabalin overdose should include general supportive measures and may include haemodialysis if necessary (see section 4.2 Table 1).
5. Pharmacological properties
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Analgesics, other analgesics and antipyretics ATC code: N02BF02
The active substance, pregabalin, is a gamma-aminobutyric acid analogue [(S)‑3‑(aminomethyl)‑5‑methylhexanoic acid].
Mechanism of action
Pregabalin binds to an auxiliary subunit (α
2
-δ protein) of voltage-gated calcium channels in the central nervous system.
Clinical efficacy and safety
Neuropathic pain
Efficacy has been shown in trials in diabetic neuropathy, post herpetic neuralgia and spinal cord injury. Efficacy has not been studied in other models of neuropathic pain.
Pregabalin has been studied in 10 controlled clinical trials of up to 13 weeks with twice a day dosing (BID) and up to 8 weeks with three times a day (TID) dosing. Overall, the safety and efficacy profiles for BID and TID dosing regimens were similar.
In clinical trials up to 12 weeks for both peripheral and central neuropathic pain, a reduction in pain was seen by Week 1 and was maintained throughout the treatment period.
In controlled clinical trials in peripheral neuropathic pain 35% of the pregabalin treated patients and 18% of the patients on placebo had a 50% improvement in pain score. For patients not experiencing somnolence, such an improvement was observed in 33% of patients treated with pregabalin and 18% of patients on placebo. For patients who experienced somnolence the responder rates were 48% on pregabalin and 16% on placebo.
In the controlled clinical trial in central neuropathic pain 22% of the pregabalin treated patients and 7% of the patients on placebo had a 50% improvement in pain score.
Epilepsy
Adjunctive Treatment
Pregabalin has been studied in 3 controlled clinical trials of 12 week duration with either BID or TID dosing. Overall, the safety and efficacy profiles for BID and TID dosing regimens were similar.
A reduction in seizure frequency was observed by Week 1.
Paediatric population
The efficacy and safety of pregabalin as adjunctive treatment for epilepsy in paediatric patients below the age of 12 and adolescents has not been established. The adverse events observed in a pharmacokinetic and tolerability study that enrolled patients from 3 months to 16 years of age (n=65) with partial onset seizures were similar to those observed in adults. Results of a 12‑week placebo‑controlled study of 295 paediatric patients aged 4 to 16 years and a 14‑day placebo‑controlled study of 175 paediatric patients aged 1 month to younger than 4 years of age performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pregabalin as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial onset seizures and two 1 year open label safety studies in 54 and 431 paediatric patients respectively, from 3 months to 16 years of age with epilepsy indicate that the adverse events of pyrexia and upper respiratory infections were observed more frequently than in adult studies of patients with epilepsy (see sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.2).
In the 12‑week placebo‑controlled study, paediatric patients (4 to 16 years of age) were assigned to pregabalin 2.5 mg/kg/day (maximum, 150 mg/day), pregabalin 10 mg/kg/day (maximum, 600 mg/day), or placebo. The percentage of subjects with at least a 50% reduction in partial onset seizures as compared to baseline was 40.6% of subjects treated with pregabalin 10 mg/kg/day (p=0.0068 versus placebo), 29.1% of subjects treated with pregabalin 2.5 mg/kg/day (p=0.2600 versus placebo) and 22.6% of those receiving placebo.
In the 14‑day placebo‑controlled study, paediatric patients (1 month to younger than 4 years of age) were assigned to pregabalin 7 mg/kg/day, pregabalin 14 mg/kg/day, or placebo. Median 24‑hour seizure frequencies at baseline and at the final visit were 4.7 and 3.8 for pregabalin 7 mg/kg/day, 5.4 and 1.4 for pregabalin 14 mg/kg/day, and 2.9 and 2.3 for placebo, respectively. Pregabalin 14 mg/kg/day significantly reduced the log‑transformed partial onset seizure frequency versus placebo (p=0.0223); pregabalin 7 mg/kg/day did not show improvement relative to placebo.
In a 12‑week placebo-controlled study in subjects with Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic (PGTC) seizures 219 subjects (aged 5 to 65 years, of which 66 were aged 5 to 16 years) were assigned to pregabalin 5 mg/kg/day (maximum 300 mg/day), 10 mg/kg/day (maximum 600 mg/day) or placebo as adjunctive therapy. The percentage of subjects with at least a 50% reduction in PGTC seizure rate was 41.3%, 38.9% and 41.7% for pregabalin 5 mg/kg/day, pregabalin 10 mg/kg/day and placebo respectively.
Monotherapy (newly diagnosed patients)
Pregabalin has been studied in 1 controlled clinical trial of 56 week duration with BID dosing. Pregabalin did not achieve non-inferiority to lamotrigine based on the 6-month seizure freedom endpoint. Pregabalin and lamotrigine were similarly safe and well tolerated.
Generalised Anxiety Disorder
Pregabalin has been studied in 6 controlled trials of 4-6 week duration, an elderly study of 8 week duration and a long-term relapse prevention study with a double-blind relapse prevention phase of 6 months duration.
Relief of the symptoms of GAD as reflected by the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A) was observed by Week 1.
In controlled clinical trials (4-8 week duration) 52% of the pregabalin treated patients and 38% of the patients on placebo had at least a 50% improvement in HAM-A total score from baseline to endpoint.
In controlled trials, a higher proportion of patients treated with pregabalin reported blurred vision than did patients treated with placebo which resolved in a majority of cases with continued dosing. Ophthalmologic testing (including visual acuity testing, formal visual field testing and dilated funduscopic examination) was conducted in over 3600 patients within controlled clinical trials. In these patients, visual acuity was reduced in 6.5% of patients treated with pregabalin, and 4.8% of placebo-treated patients. Visual field changes were detected in 12.4% of pregabalin-treated, and 11.7% of placebo-treated patients. Funduscopic changes were observed in 1.7% of pregabalin-treated and 2.1% of placebo-treated patients.
5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties
Pregabalin steady-state pharmacokinetics are similar in healthy volunteers, patients with epilepsy receiving anti-epileptic drugs and patients with chronic pain.
Absorption
Pregabalin is rapidly absorbed when administered in the fasted state, with peak plasma concentrations occurring within 1 hour following both single and multiple dose administration. Pregabalin oral bioavailability is estimated to be ≥ 90% and is independent of dose. Following repeated administration, steady state is achieved within 24 to 48 hours. The rate of pregabalin absorption is decreased when given with food resulting in a decrease in C
max
by approximately 25-30% and a delay in t
max
to approximately 2.5 hours. However, administration of pregabalin with food has no clinically significant effect on the extent of pregabalin absorption.
Distribution
In preclinical studies, pregabalin has been shown to cross the blood brain barrier in mice, rats, and monkeys. Pregabalin has been shown to cross the placenta in rats and is present in the milk of lactating rats. In humans, the apparent volume of distribution of pregabalin following oral administration is approximately 0.56 l/kg. Pregabalin is not bound to plasma proteins.
Biotransformation
Pregabalin undergoes negligible metabolism in humans. Following a dose of radiolabelled pregabalin, approximately 98% of the radioactivity recovered in the urine was unchanged pregabalin. The N‑methylated derivative of pregabalin, the major metabolite of pregabalin found in urine, accounted for 0.9% of the dose. In preclinical studies, there was no indication of racemisation of pregabalin S‑enantiomer to the R-enantiomer.
Elimination
Pregabalin is eliminated from the systemic circulation primarily by renal excretion as unchanged drug.
Pregabalin mean elimination half-life is 6.3 hours. Pregabalin plasma clearance and renal clearance are directly proportional to creatinine clearance (see section 5.2 Renal impairment).
Dose adjustment in patients with reduced renal function or undergoing haemodialysis is necessary (see section 4.2 Table 1).
Linearity/non-linearity
Pregabalin pharmacokinetics are linear over the recommended daily dose range. Inter-subject pharmacokinetic variability for pregabalin is low (< 20%). Multiple dose pharmacokinetics are predictable from single-dose data. Therefore, there is no need for routine monitoring of plasma concentrations of pregabalin.
Gender
Clinical trials indicate that gender does not have a clinically significant influence on the plasma concentrations of pregabalin.
Renal impairment
Pregabalin clearance is directly proportional to creatinine clearance. In addition, pregabalin is effectively removed from plasma by haemodialysis (following a 4 hour haemodialysis treatment plasma pregabalin concentrations are reduced by approximately 50%). Because renal elimination is the major elimination pathway, dose reduction in patients with renal impairment and dose supplementation following haemodialysis is necessary (see section 4.2 Table 1).
Hepatic impairment
No specific pharmacokinetic studies were carried out in patients with impaired liver function. Since pregabalin does not undergo significant metabolism and is excreted predominantly as unchanged drug in the urine, impaired liver function would not be expected to significantly alter pregabalin plasma concentrations.
Paediatric population
Pregabalin pharmacokinetics were evaluated in paediatric patients with epilepsy (age groups: 1 to 23 months, 2 to 6 years, 7 to 11 years and 12 to 16 years) at dose levels of 2.5, 5, 10 and 15 mg/kg/day in a pharmacokinetic and tolerability study.
After oral administration of pregabalin in paediatric patients in the fasted state, in general, time to reach peak plasma concentration was similar across the entire age group and occurred 0.5 hours to 2 hours postdose.
Pregabalin C
max
and AUC parameters increased in a linear manner with increasing dose within each age group. The AUC was lower by 30% in paediatric patients below a weight of 30 kg due to an increased body weight adjusted clearance of 43% for these patients in comparison to patients weighing ≥30 kg.
Pregabalin terminal half-life averaged about 3 to 4 hours in paediatric patients up to 6 years of age, and 4 to 6 hours in those 7 years of age and older.
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that creatinine clearance was a significant covariate of pregabalin oral clearance, body weight was a significant covariate of pregabalin apparent oral volume of distribution, and these relationships were similar in paediatric and adult patients.
Pregabalin pharmacokinetics in patients younger than 3 months old have not been studied (see sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.1).
Elderly
Pregabalin clearance tends to decrease with increasing age. This decrease in pregabalin oral clearance is consistent with decreases in creatinine clearance associated with increasing age. Reduction of pregabalin dose may be required in patients who have age related compromised renal function (see section 4.2 Table 1).
Breast‑feeding mothers
The pharmacokinetics of 150 mg pregabalin given every 12 hours (300 mg daily dose) was evaluated in 10 lactating women who were at least 12 weeks postpartum. Lactation had little to no influence on pregabalin pharmacokinetics. Pregabalin was excreted into breast milk with average steady‑state concentrations approximately 76% of those in maternal plasma. The estimated infant dose from breast milk (assuming mean milk consumption of 150 mL/kg/day) of women receiving 300 mg/day or the maximum dose of 600 mg/day would be 0.31 or 0.62 mg/kg/day, respectively. These estimated doses are approximately 7% of the total daily maternal dose on a mg/kg basis.
5.3 Preclinical safety data
In conventional safety pharmacology studies in animals, pregabalin was well-tolerated at clinically relevant doses. In repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and monkeys CNS effects were observed, including hypoactivity, hyperactivity and ataxia. An increased incidence of retinal atrophy commonly observed in aged albino rats was seen after long‑term exposure to pregabalin at exposures ≥ 5 times the mean human exposure at the maximum recommended clinical dose.
Pregabalin was not teratogenic in mice, rats or rabbits. Foetal toxicity in rats and rabbits occurred only at exposures sufficiently above human exposure. In prenatal/postnatal toxicity studies, pregabalin induced offspring developmental toxicity in rats at exposures > 2 times the maximum recommended human exposure.
Adverse effects on fertility in male and female rats were only observed at exposures sufficiently in excess of therapeutic exposure. Adverse effects on male reproductive organs and sperm parameters were reversible and occurred only at exposures sufficiently in excess of therapeutic exposure or were associated with spontaneous degenerative processes in male reproductive organs in the rat. Therefore the effects were considered of little or no clinical relevance.
Pregabalin is not genotoxic based on results of a battery of
in vitro
and
in vivo
tests.
Two-year carcinogenicity studies with pregabalin were conducted in rats and mice. No tumours were observed in rats at exposures up to 24 times the mean human exposure at the maximum recommended clinical dose of 600 mg/day. In mice, no increased incidence of tumours was found at exposures similar to the mean human exposure, but an increased incidence of haemangiosarcoma was observed at higher exposures. The non-genotoxic mechanism of pregabalin-induced tumour formation in mice involves platelet changes and associated endothelial cell proliferation. These platelet changes were not present in rats or in humans based on short‑term and limited long‑term clinical data. There is no evidence to suggest an associated risk to humans.
In juvenile rats the types of toxicity do not differ qualitatively from those observed in adult rats. However, juvenile rats are more sensitive. At therapeutic exposures, there was evidence of CNS clinical signs of hyperactivity and bruxism and some changes in growth (transient body weight gain suppression). Effects on the oestrus cycle were observed at 5-fold the human therapeutic exposure. Reduced acoustic startle response was observed in juvenile rats 1-2 weeks after exposure at > 2 times the human therapeutic exposure. Nine weeks after exposure, this effect was no longer observable.
6. Pharmaceutical particulars
6.1 List of excipients
Capsules content
:
Lactose monohydrate
Maize starch
Talc
Capsules shell
:
Gelatin
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Sodium laurilsulphate
Silica, colloidal anhydrous
Purified water
Red iron oxide (E172)
Printing ink
:
Shellac
Black iron oxide (E172)
Propylene glycol
Potassium hydroxide
6.2 Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3 Shelf life
3 years.
6.4 Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
PVC/Aluminium blisters containing 14, 56, 70 100, or 112 hard capsules.
100 x 1 hard capsules in PVC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blisters.
HDPE bottle containing 200 hard capsules.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling
No special requirements for disposal.
7. Marketing authorisation holder
Viatris Products Limited,
Station Close,
Potters Bar,
EN6 1TL,
United Kingdom.
8. Marketing authorisation number(s)
PL 46302/0338
9. Date of first authorisation/renewal of the authorisation
Date of first authorisation: 06 July 2004
Date of latest renewal: 29 May 2009
10. Date of revision of the text
02/2026
Viatris (formerly Mylan or Upjohn)
Address
Building 4, Trident Place, Mosquito Way, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9UL
Telephone
+44 (0)1707 853 000
Fax
+44 (0)1707 261 803
Medical Information Direct Line
+44 (0)1707 853 000
Medical Information Fax
+44 (0)1707 261 803
Medical Information e-mail
[email protected]
Customer Care direct line
+44 (0)1707 853 000 select option 2
Stock Availability
+44 (0)1707 853 000 select option 2
WWW
www.viatris.com
Contact us
Links
Accessibility
Legal and privacy notice
Cookie notice
Cookie Settings
Glossary
Site Maps
Delivered to you by
