                              Package leaflet: Information for the user

                                    Lyrica 25 mg hard capsules,
                                    Lyrica 50 mg hard capsules,
                                    Lyrica 75 mg hard capsules,
                                    Lyrica 100 mg hard capsules,
                                    Lyrica 150 mg hard capsules,
                                    Lyrica 200 mg hard capsules,
                                    Lyrica 225 mg hard capsules,
                                    Lyrica 300 mg hard capsules
                                             pregabalin

This medicine contains pregabalin, which can cause dependence, tolerance and addiction. You can get
withdrawal symptoms if you stop taking it or reduce the dose suddenly. If this medicine is being used
for the treatment of epilepsy you must continue to take this medicine as instructed by your doctor.

Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
-    Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
-    If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
-    This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them,
     even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
-    If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side
     effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.

What is in this leaflet

1.      What Lyrica is and what it is used for
2.      What you need to know before you take Lyrica
3.      How to take Lyrica
4.      Possible side effects
5.      How to store Lyrica
6.      Contents of the pack and other information


1.      What Lyrica is and what it is used for

This medicine has been prescribed for you to treat epilepsy, neuropathic pain and Generalised Anxiety
Disorder (GAD) in adults.
It contains the pregabalin which belongs to a class of medicines called Gabapentinoids.
This medicine has been prescribed to you and should not be given to anyone else.

Peripheral and central neuropathic pain: Lyrica is used to treat long lasting pain caused by damage
to the nerves. A variety of diseases can cause peripheral neuropathic pain, such as diabetes or shingles.
Pain sensations may be described as hot, burning, throbbing, shooting, stabbing, sharp, cramping,
aching, tingling, numbness, pins and needles. Peripheral and central neuropathic pain may also be
associated with mood changes, sleep disturbance, fatigue (tiredness), and can have an impact on
physical and social functioning and overall quality of life.

Epilepsy: Lyrica is used to treat a certain form of epilepsy (partial seizures with or without secondary
generalisation) in adults. Your doctor will prescribe Lyrica for you to help treat your epilepsy when
your current treatment is not controlling your condition. You should take Lyrica in addition to your
current treatment. Lyrica is not intended to be used alone, but should always be used in combination
with other anti-epileptic treatment.

Generalised Anxiety Disorder: Lyrica is used to treat Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD). The
symptoms of GAD are prolonged excessive anxiety and worry that are difficult to control. GAD can

                                                Page 1 of 9
also cause restlessness or feeling keyed up or on edge, being easily fatigued (tired), having difficulty
concentrating or mind going blank, feeling irritable, having muscle tension or sleep disturbance. This
is different to the stresses and strains of everyday life.

Gabapentinoids can cause dependence, tolerance and addiction, and you may get withdrawal
symptoms if you stop taking it or reduce the dose suddenly. Your prescriber should have explained
how long you will be taking it for and, when it is appropriate to stop, how to do this safely. When your
treatment is stopped, it is usually done gradually over a period which is specific to you and may occur
over a period of weeks to months. If this medicine is being used for the treatment of epilepsy you must
continue to take it as prescribed by your doctor.


2.       What you need to know before you take Lyrica

Do not take Lyrica
If you are allergic to pregabalin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6).

Warnings and Precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Lyrica.

•    Some patients taking Lyrica have reported symptoms suggesting an allergic reaction. These
     symptoms include swelling of the face, lips, tongue, and throat, as well as diffuse skin rash.
     Should you experience any of these reactions, you should contact your physician immediately.

•    Serious skin rashes including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been
     reported in association with pregabalin. Stop using pregabalin and seek medical attention
     immediately if you notice any of the symptoms related to these serious skin reactions described in
     section 4.

•    Lyrica has been associated with dizziness and somnolence, which could increase the occurrence of
     accidental injury (fall) in elderly patients. Therefore, you should be careful until you are used to
     any effect the medicine might have.

•    Lyrica may cause blurring or loss of vision, or other changes in eyesight, many of which are
     temporary. You should immediately tell your doctor if you experience any changes in your vision.

•    Some patients with diabetes who gain weight while taking pregabalin may need an alteration in
     their diabetic medicines.

•    Certain side effects may be more common, such as sleepiness, because patients with spinal cord
     injury may be taking other medicines to treat, for example, pain or spasticity, that have similar
     side effects to pregabalin and the severity of these effects may be increased when taken together.

•    There have been reports of heart failure in some patients when taking Lyrica; these patients were
     mostly elderly with cardiovascular conditions. Before taking this medicine you should tell your
     doctor if you have a history of heart disease.

•    There have been reports of kidney failure in some patients when taking Lyrica. If while taking
     Lyrica you notice decreased urination, you should tell your doctor as stopping the medicine may
     improve this.

•    Some patients being treated with anti-epileptics such as Lyrica have had thoughts of harming or
     killing themselves or shown suicidal behaviour. If at any time you have these thoughts or shown
     such behaviour, immediately contact your doctor.




                                                 Page 2 of 9
•   When Lyrica is taken with other medicines that may cause constipation (such as some types of
    pain medicines) it is possible that gastrointestinal problems may occur (e.g. constipation, blocked
    or paralysed bowel). Tell your doctor if you experience constipation, especially if you are prone to
    this problem.

•   if you are or have ever been addicted to opiods, alcohol, prescription medicines or illegal drugs; or
    if you have ever had a history of struggling to control your alcohol or drug intake.

•   Have previously suffered from withdrawal symptoms such as agitation, anxiety, shaking or
    sweating, when you have stopped taking alcohol or drugs.

•   Feel you need to take more of Lyrica to get the same level of symptom control, this may mean you
    are developing tolerance to the effects of this medicine or are becoming addicted to it. Speak to
    your prescriber who will discuss your treatment and may change your dose or switch you to an
    alternative medication.

•   There have been reports of convulsions when taking Lyrica or shortly after stopping Lyrica. If you
    experience a convulsion, contact your doctor immediately.

•   There have been reports of reduction in brain function (encephalopathy) in some patients taking
    Lyrica when they have other conditions. Tell your doctor if you have a history of any serious
    medical conditions, including liver or kidney disease.

•   There have been reports of breathing difficulties. If you have nervous system disorders, respiratory
    disorders, renal impairment, or you are older than 65, your doctor may prescribe you a different
    dosing regimen. Contact your doctor if you experience trouble breathing or shallow breaths.

Dependence

Taking this medicine regularly, particularly for a long time, can lead to physical dependence and
addiction. Your prescriber should have explained how long you will be taking it for and, when it is
appropriate to stop, how to do this safely. When your treatment is stopped, it is usually done gradually
over a period which is specific to you and may occur over a period of weeks to months.
Physical dependence and addiction can cause withdrawal symptoms when you stop taking this
medicine. Withdrawal symptoms can include trouble sleeping, headache, nausea, feeling anxious,
diarrhoea, flu-like symptoms, convulsions, nervousness, depression, thoughts of harming or killing
yourself, pain, sweating, and dizziness.

Your prescriber will discuss with you how to gradually reduce your dose before stopping the medicine.
It is important that you do not stop taking the medicine suddenly as you will be more likely to
experience withdrawal symptoms. Your prescriber will ensure that your plan for stopping treatment is
tailored to you and can be adapted according to your needs and experience of any withdrawal
symptoms.

Gabapentinoids should only be used by those they are prescribed for. Do not give your medicine to
anyone else. Taking higher doses or more frequent doses of gabapentinoids may increase the risk of
addiction. Overuse and misuse can lead to overdose and/or death.

Some people may become dependent on Lyrica (a need to keep taking the medicine). They may have
withdrawal effects when they stop using Lyrica (see section 3, “How to take Lyrica” and “If you stop
taking Lyrica”). If you have concerns that you may become dependent on Lyrica, it is important that
you consult your doctor.

If you notice any of the following signs whilst taking Lyrica, it could be a sign that you have become
dependent:
•       You need to take the medicine for longer than advised by your prescriber


                                                Page 3 of 9
•       You feel you need to take more than the recommended dose
•       You are using the medicine for reasons other than prescribed
•       You have made repeated, unsuccessful attempts to quit or control the use of the medicine
•       When you stop taking the medicine you feel unwell, and you feel better once taking the
        medicine again
If you notice any of these, speak to your doctor to discuss the best treatment pathway for you,
including when it is appropriate to stop and how to do this safely.


Children and adolescents
The safety and efficacy in children and adolescents (under 18 years of age) has not been established
and therefore, pregabalin should not be used in this age group.
Other medicines and Lyrica
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other
medicines.

Lyrica and certain other medicines may influence each other (interaction). When taken with certain
other medicines which have sedative effects (including opioids), Lyrica may potentiate these effects,
and could lead to respiratory failure, coma and death. The degree of dizziness, sleepiness and
decreased concentration may be increased if Lyrica is taken together with medicines containing:

Oxycodone – (used as a pain-killer)
Lorazepam – (used for treating anxiety)
Alcohol

Lyrica may be taken with oral contraceptives.

Lyrica with food, drink and alcohol
Lyrica capsules may be taken with or without food.

It is advised not to drink alcohol while taking Lyrica.

Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Lyrica should not be taken during pregnancy or when breast-feeding, unless you are told otherwise by
your doctor. Pregabalin use during the first 3 months of pregnancy may cause birth defects in the
unborn child that require medical treatment. In a study reviewing data from women in Nordic
countries who took pregabalin in the first 3 months of pregnancy, 6 babies in every 100 had such birth
defects. This compares to 4 babies in every 100 born to women not treated with pregabalin in the
study. Abnormalities of the face (orofacial clefts), the eyes, the nervous system (including the brain),
kidneys and genitals have been reported.

Effective contraception must be used by women of childbearing potential. If you are pregnant or
breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or
pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.

Driving and using machines
Lyrica may produce dizziness, sleepiness and decreased concentration. You should not drive, operate
complex machinery or engage in other potentially hazardous activities until you know whether this
medicine affects your ability to perform these activities.

Lyrica contains lactose monohydrate
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor
before taking this medicine.

Lyrica contains sodium



                                                 Page 4 of 9
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per hard capsule, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.


3.       How to take Lyrica

Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist
if you are not sure. Do not take more medicine than prescribed.

Your doctor will determine what dose is appropriate for you.

Your prescriber should have discussed with you how long the course of tablets will last. They will
arrange a plan for stopping treatment. This will outline how to gradually reduce the dose and stop
taking the medicine. Your prescriber will ensure that your plan for stopping treatment is tailored to you
and can be adapted according to your needs and experience of any withdrawal symptoms.

Lyrica is for oral use only.

Peripheral and central neuropathic pain, epilepsy or Generalised Anxiety Disorder:
• Take the number of capsules as instructed by your doctor.
• The dose, which has been adjusted for you and your condition, will generally be between 150 mg
    and 600 mg each day.
• Your doctor will tell you to take Lyrica either twice or three times a day. For twice a day take
    Lyrica once in the morning and once in the evening, at about the same time each day. For three
    times a day take Lyrica once in the morning, once in the afternoon and once in the evening, at
    about the same time each day.

If you have the impression that the effect of Lyrica is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or
pharmacist.

If you are an elderly patient (over 65 years of age), you should take Lyrica normally except if you have
problems with your kidneys.

Your doctor may prescribe a different dosing schedule and/or dose if you have problems with your
kidneys.

Swallow the capsule whole with water.

Continue taking Lyrica until your doctor tells you to stop.

If you take more Lyrica than you should
Call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency unit immediately. Take your box or bottle of
Lyrica capsules with you. You may feel sleepy, confused, agitated, or restless as a result of taking
more Lyrica than you should. Fits and unconsciousness (coma) have also been reported.

If you forget to take Lyrica
It is important to take your Lyrica capsules regularly at the same time each day. If you forget to take a
dose, take it as soon as you remember unless it is time for your next dose. In that case, just carry on
with the next dose as normal. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose.

If you stop taking Lyrica
Do not suddenly stop taking Lyrica. If you want to stop taking Lyrica, discuss this with your doctor first. They
will tell you how to do this, usually by reducing the dose gradually so that any unpleasant withdrawal effects are
kept to a minimum. This may occur over a period of weeks to months. Your prescriber will ensure that your plan
for stopping treatment is tailored to you and can be adapted according to your needs and experience of any
withdrawal symptoms. Withdrawal symptoms such as trouble sleeping, headache, nausea, feeling anxious,
diarrhoea, flu-like symptoms, convulsions, nervousness, depression, thoughts of harming or killing

                                                    Page 5 of 9
yourself, pain, sweating, and dizziness. These effects may occur more commonly or severely if you
have been taking Lyrica for a longer period of time. If you experience withdrawal effects, you should
contact your doctor.

If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.


4.      Possible side effects

Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.

Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people

Dizziness, drowsiness, headache.

Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people

•     Increased appetite.
•     Feeling of elation, confusion, disorientation, decrease in sexual interest, irritability.
•     Disturbance in attention, clumsiness, memory impairment, loss of memory, tremor, difficulty
      with speaking, tingling feeling, numbness, sedation, lethargy, insomnia, fatigue, feeling
      abnormal.
•     Blurred vision, double vision.
•     Vertigo, problems with balance, fall.
•     Dry mouth, constipation, vomiting, flatulence, diarrhoea, nausea, swollen abdomen.
•     Difficulties with erection.
•     Swelling of the body including extremities.
•     Feeling drunk, abnormal style of walking.
•     Weight gain.
•     Muscle cramp, joint pain, back pain, pain in limb.
•     Sore throat.

Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people

•     Loss of appetite, weight loss, low blood sugar, high blood sugar.
•     Change in perception of self, restlessness, depression, agitation, mood swings, difficulty finding
      words, hallucinations, abnormal dreams, panic attack, apathy, aggression, elevated mood, mental
      impairment, difficulty with thinking, increase in sexual interest, problems with sexual
      functioning including inability to achieve a sexual climax, delayed ejaculation.
•     Changes in eyesight, unusual eye movement, changes in vision including tunnel vision, flashes
      of light, jerky movements, reduced reflexes, increased activity, dizziness on standing, sensitive
      skin, loss of taste, burning sensation, tremor on movement, decreased consciousness, loss of
      consciousness, fainting, increased sensitivity to noise, feeling unwell.
•     Dry eyes, eye swelling, eye pain, weak eyes, watery eyes, eye irritation.
•     Heart rhythm disturbances, increased heart rate, low blood pressure, high blood pressure,
        changes in heart beat, heart failure.
•     Flushing, hot flushes.
•     Difficulty breathing, dry nose, nasal congestion.
•     Increased saliva production, heartburn, numb around mouth.
•     Sweating, rash, chills, fever.
•     Muscle twitching, joint swelling, muscle stiffness, pain including muscle pain, neck pain.
•     Breast pain.
•     Difficulty with or painful urination, incontinence.
•     Weakness, thirst, chest tightness.



                                               Page 6 of 9
•     Changes in blood and liver test results (blood creatinine phosphokinase increased, alanine amino
      transferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, platelet count decreased,
      neutropaenia, increase in blood creatinine, decrease in blood potassium).
•     Hypersensitivity, swollen face, itchiness, hives, runny nose, nose bleed, cough, snoring.
•     Painful menstrual periods.
•     Coldness of hands and feet.

Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people

•     Abnormal sense of smell, swinging vision, altered perception of depth, visual brightness, vision
      loss.
•     Dilated pupils, cross eyes.
•     Cold sweat, tightness of the throat, swollen tongue.
•     Inflammation of the pancreas.
•     Difficulty in swallowing.
•     Slow or reduced movement of the body.
•     Difficulty with writing properly.
•     Increased fluid in the abdomen.
•     Fluid in the lungs.
•     Convulsions.
•     Changes in the recording of electrical changes (ECG) in the heart which correspond to heart
      rhythm disturbances.
•     Muscle damage.
•     Breast discharge, abnormal breast growth, breast growth in males.
•     Interrupted menstrual periods.
•     Kidney failure, reduced urine volume, urinary retention.
•     Decrease in white blood cell count.
•     Inappropriate behaviour, suicidal behaviour, suicidal thoughts.
•     Allergic reactions which may include difficulty breathing, inflammation of the eyes (keratitis)
      and serious skin reactions characterized by reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches
      on the trunk, often with central blisters, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and
      eyes. These serious skin rashes can be preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms
      (Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis).
•     Jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes).
•     Parkinsonism, that is symptoms resembling Parkinson’s disease; such as tremor, bradykinesia
      (decreased ability to move), and rigidity (muscle stiffness).

Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people

•     Liver failure.
•     Hepatitis (inflammation of the liver).

Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data

•     Becoming dependent on Lyrica (dependence and addiction, see section “How do I know if I am
      tolerant or addicted?”).

Drug Withdrawal
When you stop taking Lyrica, you may experience drug withdrawal symptoms, which include trouble
sleeping, headache, nausea, feeling anxious, diarrhoea, flu-like symptoms, convulsions, nervousness,
depression, thoughts of harming or killing yourself, pain, sweating, and dizziness.

If you experience swollen face or tongue or if your skin turns red and starts to blister or peel,
you should seek immediate medical advice.



                                                 Page 7 of 9
How do I know if I am tolerant or addicted?
If you notice any of the following signs whilst taking Lyrica, it could be a sign that you have become
addicted.
    • You may feel the need to keep taking the medication for longer than your doctor
        recommended
    • You feel you need to use more than the recommended dose
    • You are using the medicine for reasons other than prescribed
    • When you stop taking the medicine you feel unwell, and you feel better once taking the
        medicine again
If you notice any of these signs, it is important you talk to your prescriber

Certain side effects may be more common, such as sleepiness, because patients with spinal cord injury
may be taking other medicines to treat, for example, pain or spasticity, that have similar side effects to
Pregabalin and the severity of these effects may be increased when taken together.

The following adverse reaction has been reported in the postmarketing experience: Trouble breathing,
shallow breaths.

Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the Yellow Card Scheme
at: www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow Card in the Google Play or Apple App
Store. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine.


5.      How to store Lyrica

Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.

Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton or bottle. The expiry date
refers to the last day of that month.

This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.

Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.


6.      Contents of the pack and other information

What Lyrica contains

The active substance is pregabalin. Each hard capsule contains either 25 mg, 50 mg, 75 mg, 100 mg,
150 mg, 200 mg, 225 mg or 300 mg pregabalin.

The other ingredients are: lactose monohydrate, maize starch, talc, gelatine, titanium dioxide (E171),
sodium laurilsulphate, anhydrous colloidal silica, black ink, (which contains shellac, black iron oxide
(E172), propylene glycol, potassium hydroxide) and water.

The 75 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg, 225 mg and 300 mg capsules also contain red iron oxide (E172).




                                                 Page 8 of 9
     What Lyrica looks like and contents of the pack
                         White hard capsules, with “VTRS” marked on the cap and “PGN 25” on
       25 mg capsules
                         the body.
                         White hard capsules, with “VTRS” marked on the cap and “PGN 50”on
       50 mg capsules
                         the body. The capsule body is marked with a black band.
                         White and orange hard capsules with “VTRS” marked on the cap and
       75 mg capsules
                         “PGN 75” on the body.
                         Orange hard capsules, with “VTRS” marked on the cap and “PGN 100”
      100 mg capsules
                         on the body.
                         White hard capsules, with “VTRS” marked on the cap and “PGN 150” on
      150 mg capsules
                         the body.
                         Light orange hard capsules, with “VTRS” marked on the cap and “PGN
      200 mg capsules
                         200” on the body.
                         White and light orange hard capsules, with “VTRS” marked on the cap
      225 mg capsules
                         and “PGN 225” on the body.
                         White and orange hard capsules, with “VTRS” marked on the cap and
      300 mg capsules
                         “PGN 300” on the body.

Lyrica is available in eight pack sizes made of PVC with an aluminium foil backing: a 14 capsules
pack containing 1 blister strip, a 21 capsules pack containing 1 blister strip, a 56 capsules pack
containing 4 blister strips, a 70 capsules pack containing 5 blister strips, a 84 capsules pack containing
4 blister strips, a 100 capsules pack containing 10 blister strips, a 112 capsules pack containing
8 blister strips and 100 x 1 capsules as perforated unit dose blisters.

In addition, Lyrica is available in an HDPE bottle containing 200 capsules for the 25 mg, 75 mg,
150 mg and 300 mg strengths.

Not all pack sizes may be marketed.

Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer

Marketing Authorisation Holder:
Viatris Products Limited, Station Close, Potters Bar, EN6 1TL, United Kingdom.

Manufacturer:
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH, Mooswaldallee 1, 79108 Freiburg Im Breisgau, Germany.

or

Mylan Hungary Kft., Mylan utca 1, Komárom 2900, Hungary

or

MEDIS INTERNATIONAL a.s., výrobní závod Bolatice, Průmyslová 961/16, 747 23 Bolatice, Czech
Republic.

This leaflet was last revised in: 04/2026




                                                 Page 9 of 9
