                             Package leaflet: Information for the user

                            Pantoprazole 40 mg gastro-resistant tablets
                                          pantoprazole

Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
-    Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
-    If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
-    This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm
     them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
-    If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any
     possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.

What is in this leaflet
1.   What Pantoprazole is and what it is used for
2.   What you need to know before you take Pantoprazole
3.   How to take Pantoprazole
4.   Possible side effects
5.   How to store Pantoprazole
6.   Contents of the pack and other information


1.      What Pantoprazole is and what it is used for

Pantoprazole contains the active substance pantoprazole. Pantoprazole is a selective “proton pump
inhibitor”, a medicine which reduces the amount of acid produced in your stomach. It is used for
treating acid-related diseases of the stomach and intestine.

Pantoprazole is used to treat adults and adolescents 12 years of age and above for
•     Reflux oesophagitis. An inflammation of your oesophagus (the tube which connects your
      throat to your stomach) accompanied by the regurgitation of stomach acid.

Pantoprazole is used to treat adults for
•     An infection with a bacterium called Helicobacter pylori in patients with duodenal ulcers
      and stomach ulcers in combination with two antibiotics (eradication therapy). The aim is to
      get rid of the bacteria and so reduce the likelihood of these ulcers returning.
•     Stomach and duodenal ulcers.
•     Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome and other conditions producing too much acid in the stomach.


2.      What you need to know before you take Pantoprazole

  Do not take Pantoprazole
-     If you are allergic to Pantoprazole or to any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed
      in section 6).
-     If you are allergic to medicines containing other proton pump inhibitors.

Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Pantoprazole
-     If you have severe liver problems. Please tell your doctor if you have ever had problems with
      your liver in the past. Your doctor will check your liver enzymes more frequently, especially
      when you are taking Pantoprazole as a long-term treatment. In the case of a rise of liver
      enzymes the treatment should be stopped.
-     If you have reduced body stores or risk factors for reduced vitamin B12 and receive long-
                                                   1
      term treatment with Pantoprazole. As with all acid reducing agents, Pantoprazole may lead to
      a reduced absorption of vitamin B12. Please contact your doctor if you notice any of the
      following symptoms, which could indicate low levels of Vitamin B12:
      -      Extreme tiredness or lack of energy
      -      Pins and needles
      -      Sore or red tongue, mouth ulcers
      -      Muscle weakness
      -      Disturbed vision
      -      Problems with memory, confusion, depression.
-     If you are taking HIV protease inhibitors such as atazanavir (for the treatment of HIV-
      infection) at the same time as Pantoprazole, ask your doctor for specific advice.
-     Taking a proton pump inhibitor like Pantoprazole, especially over a period of more than one
      year, may slightly increase your risk of fracture in the hip, wrist or spine. Tell your doctor if
      you have osteoporosis (reduced bone density) or if you have been told that you are at risk of
      getting osteoporosis (for example, if you are taking steroids).
-     If you are on Pantoprazole for more than three months it is possible that the levels of
      magnesium in your blood may fall. Low levels of magnesium can be seen as fatigue,
      involuntary muscle contractions, disorientation, convulsions, dizziness, increased heart rate.
      If you get any of these symptoms, please tell your doctor promptly. Low levels of
      magnesium can also lead to a reduction in potassium or calcium levels in the blood. Your
      doctor may decide to perform regular blood tests to monitor your levels of magnesium.
-     If you have ever had a skin reaction after treatment with a medicine similar to Pantoprazole
      that reduces stomach acid.
-     If you get a rash on your skin, especially in areas exposed to the sun tell your doctor as soon
      as you can, as you may need to stop your treatment with Pantoprazole. Remember to also
      mention any other ill effects like pain in your joints.
-     Serious skin reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug
      reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) and erythema multiforme, have
      been reported in association with pantoprazole treatment. Stop using pantoprazole and seek
      medical attention immediately if you notice any of the symptoms related to these serious
      skin reactions described in section 4.
-     If you are due to have a specific blood test (Chromogranin A).



Tell your doctor immediately, before or after taking this medicine, if you notice any of the
following symptoms, which could be a sign of another, more serious, disease:
 -     an unintentional loss of weight
 -     vomiting, particularly if repeated
 -     vomiting blood; this may appear as dark coffee grounds in your vomit
 -     you notice blood in your stools; which may be black or tarry in appearance
 -     difficulty in swallowing or pain when swallowing
 -     you look pale and feel weak (anaemia)
 -     chest pain
 -     stomach pain
 -     severe and/or persistent diarrhoea, because this medicine has been associated with a
       small increase in infectious diarrhoea.

Your doctor may decide that you need some tests to rule out malignant disease because
Pantoprazole also alleviates the symptoms of cancer and could cause delay in diagnosing it. If your
symptoms continue in spite of your treatment, further investigations will be considered.

If you take Pantoprazole on a long-term basis (longer than 1 year) your doctor will probably keep
you under regular surveillance. You should report any new and exceptional symptoms and
circumstances whenever you see your doctor.


                                                   2
Children and adolescents
Pantoprazole is not recommended for use in children as it has not been proven to work in children
below 12 years of age.

Other medicines and Pantoprazole
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription.

This is because Pantoprazole may influence the effectiveness of other medicines, so tell your
doctor if you are taking:
-      Medicines such as ketoconazole, itraconazole and posaconazole (used to treat fungal
       infections) or erlotinib (used for certain types of cancer) because Pantoprazole may stop
       these and other medicines from working properly.
-      Warfarin and phenprocoumon, which affect the thickening, or thinning of the blood. You
       may need further checks.
-      Medicines used to treat HIV-infection, such as atazanavir.
-      Methotrexate (used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and cancer) – if you are taking
       methotrexate your doctor may temporarily stop your Pantoprazole treatment because
       Pantoprazole can increase levels of methotrexate in the blood.
-      Fluvoxamine (used to treat depression and other psychiatric diseases) – if you are taking
       fluvoxamine your doctor may reduce the dose.
-      Rifampicin (used to treat infections).
-      St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) (used to treat mild depression).

Talk to your doctor before taking pantoprazole if you are due to have a specific urine test (for THC;
Tetrahydrocannabinol).

Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility
There are no adequate data from the use of Pantoprazole in pregnant women. Excretion into human
milk has been reported.

If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby,
ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.

You should use this medicine, only if your doctor considers the benefit for you greater than the
potential risk for your unborn child or baby.

Driving and using machines
Pantoprazole has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.

If you experience side effects like dizziness or disturbed vision, you should not drive or operate
machines.

Pantoprazole contains Lactose
Tell your doctor if you are lactose-intolerant or intolerant to other sugars.

Pantoprazole contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per gastro-resistant tablet, that is so to
say essentially ‘sodium-free’.

Pantoprazole contains propylene glycol
This medicine contains 1 mg propylene glycol in each 40 mg gastro-resistant tablet. This may
cause alcohol-like symptoms.


3.      How to take Pantoprazole

                                                    3
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your
doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.

Method of administration
Take the tablets 1 hour before a meal without chewing or breaking them and swallow them whole
with some water.

The recommended dose is:

Adults and adolescents 12 years of age and above
To treat reflux oesophagitis
The usual dose is one tablet a day. Your doctor may tell you to increase to 2 tablets daily. The
treatment period for reflux oesophagitis is usually between 4 and 8 weeks. Your doctor will tell you
how long to take your medicine.

Adults
For the treatment of an infection with a bacterium called Helicobacter pylori in patients with
duodenal ulcers and stomach ulcers in combination with two antibiotics (Eradication therapy).
One tablet, two times a day plus two antibiotic tablets of either amoxicillin, clarithromycin and
metronidazole (or tinidazole), each to be taken two times a day with your Pantoprazole tablet. Take
the first Pantoprazole tablet 1 hour before breakfast and the second Pantoprazole tablet 1 hour
before your evening meal. Follow your doctor’s instructions and make sure you read the package
leaflets for these antibiotics. The usual treatment period is one to two weeks.

For the treatment of stomach and duodenal ulcers.
The usual dose is one tablet a day. After consultation with your doctor, the dose may be doubled.
Your doctor will tell you how long to take your medicine. The treatment period for stomach ulcers
is usually between 4 and 8 weeks. The treatment period for duodenal ulcers is usually between 2
and 4 weeks.

For the long-term treatment of Zollinger-Ellison-Syndrome and of other conditions in which too
much stomach acid is produced.
The recommended starting dose is usually two tablets a day.
Take the two tablets 1 hour before a meal. Your doctor may later adjust the dose, depending on the
amount of stomach acid you produce. If prescribed more than two tablets a day, the tablets should
be taken twice daily.

If your doctor prescribes a daily dose of more than four tablets a day, you will be told exactly when
to stop taking the medicine.

Patients with kidney problems
If you have kidney problems, you should not take Pantoprazole for eradication of Helicobacter
pylori.

Patients with liver problems
If you suffer from severe liver problems, you should not take more than one tablet 20 mg
Pantoprazole a day (for this purpose tablets containing 20 mg Pantoprazole are available).

If you suffer from moderate or severe liver problems, you should not take Pantoprazole for
eradication of Helicobacter pylori.

Use in children and adolescents
These tablets are not recommended for use in children below 12 years.

If you take more Pantoprazole than you should

                                                  4
Consult your doctor or pharmacist. There are no known symptoms of overdose.

If you forget to take Pantoprazole
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Take your next, normal dose at the
usual time.

If you stop taking Pantoprazole
Do not stop taking these tablets without first talking to your doctor or pharmacist.

If you have any further questions about the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or
nurse.


4.      Possible side effects

Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.

If you get any of the following side effects, stop taking these tablets and tell your doctor
immediately, or contact the casualty department at your nearest hospital:
-     Serious allergic reactions (frequency rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): swelling of
      the tongue and/or throat, difficulty in swallowing, hives (nettle rash), difficulties in
      breathing, allergic facial swelling (Quincke’s oedema / angioedema), severe dizziness with
      very fast heartbeat and heavy sweating.
-     Serious skin conditions (frequency not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the
      available data): you may notice one or more of the following - blistering of the skin and rapid
      deterioration of your general condition, erosion (including slight bleeding) of eyes, nose,
      mouth/lips or genitals, or skin sensitivity/rash, particularly in areas of skin exposed to light/the
      sun. You may also have joint pain or flu-like symptoms, a fever, swollen glands (e.g. in the
      armpit) and blood tests may show changes in certain white blood cells or liver enzymes
       -     reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central
             blisters, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. These serious skin
             rashes can be preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens Johnson Syndrome, toxic
             epidermal necrolysis).
       -      widespread rash, high body temperature and enlarged lymph nodes (DRESS
             syndrome or drug hypersensitivity Syndrome).
-     Other serious conditions (frequency not known): yellowing of the skin or whites of the
      eyes (severe damage to liver cells, jaundice) or fever, rash, and enlarged kidneys sometimes
      with painful urination, and lower back pain (serious inflammation of the kidneys), possibly
      leading to kidney failure.

Other side effects are:
-     Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
      Benign polyps in the stomach.
-     Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):
      Headache; dizziness; diarrhoea; feeling sick, vomiting; bloating and flatulence (wind);
      constipation; dry mouth; abdominal pain and discomfort; skin rash, exanthema, eruption;
      itching; feeling weak, exhausted or generally unwell; sleep disorders; fracture in the hip,
      wrist or spine.
-     Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people):
      Distortion or complete lack of the sense of taste; disturbances in vision such as blurred
      vision; hives; pain in the joints; muscle pains; weight changes; raised body temperature; high
      fever; swelling of the extremities (peripheral oedema); allergic reactions; depression; breast
      enlargement in males.
-     Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people):
      Disorientation.
-     Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)

                                                     5
      Hallucination, confusion (especially in patients with a history of these symptoms); feeling of
      tingling, prickling, pins and needles, burning sensation or numbness, rash, possibly with pain
      in the joints, inflammation in the large bowel, that causes persistent watery diarrhoea.

Side effects identified through blood tests:
-   Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
    an increase in liver enzymes.
-   Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) an increase in bilirubin; increased fat levels in
    blood; sharp drop in circulating granular white blood cells, associated with high fever.
-   Very Rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) a reduction in the number of blood platelets,
    which may cause you to bleed or bruise more than normal; a reduction in the number of white
    blood cells, which may lead to more frequent infections; coexisting abnormal reduction in the
    number of red and white blood cells, as well as platelets.
 - Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)
    decreased level of sodium, magnesium, calcium or potassium in blood (see section 2)

Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via Yellow Card Scheme
website www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow Card in the Google Play or
Apple App Store.
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine.



5.      How to store Pantoprazole

Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.

Do not use this medicine after the expiry date, which is stated on the carton after ‘EXP’. The
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.

Storage below 30 °C.
Store in the original package.

Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.


6.      Contents of the pack and other information

What Pantoprazole contains
-  The active substance is pantoprazole. Each tablet contains 40 mg pantoprazole (as sodium
   sesquihydrate).
-  The other ingredients are:
-  Core: lactose monohydrate, hydroxypropylcellulose, calcium stearate, sodium carbonate,
   sodium laurilsulfate.
-  Coating: hypromellose, ferric oxide yellow (E 172), propylene glycol, titanium dioxide (E
   171), methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1), triethyl citrate, polysorbate 80,
   carnauba wax.
-  Printing ink: shellac, black iron oxide (E172), propylene glycol.

What Pantoprazole looks like and contents of the pack
Yellow to pale yellow, oval, biconvex, gastro-resistant tablets imprinted "H126" on one side with
black ink and plain on other side. Approximate size 11.60 mm X 5.90 mm.


                                                   6
Pantoprazole 40 mg are available in blister pack of 28 gastro-resistant tablets.

Marketing Authorisation Holder
Amarox Limited
Congress House, 14 Lyon Road
Harrow, Middlesex HA1 2EN
United Kingdom

Manufacturer
Pharmadox Healthcare Ltd.
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park
Paola, PLA 3000
Malta

Amarox Limited
Congress House, 14 Lyon Road
Harrow, Middlesex HA1 2EN
United Kingdom

This leaflet was last revised in 01/2026.




                                                   7
