Paracetamol 500mg Tablets - Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) - (emc) | 5164
We use cookies to improve your experience and to help us understand how our site is used. You can find out more about your options on our
Cookies page
.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
About Cookies
×
Most websites these days use cookies to store and retrieve information. Some of this information might be about you,
                your preferences or your device and is mostly used to help the website work in the way you expect.
This information doesn’t usually directly identify you but can give you a more personalized experience.
We will never sell any of your personally identifiable information, whether gathered using a cookie or otherwise.
We respect your right to privacy, so you can choose whether or not some cookies are enabled on our website.
                However, disabling some cookies can impact your experience and the services we are able to offer. For more information see our Cookie settings and Privacy Policy.
Essential Cookies (Required)
These cookies are essential for the website to work properly and can’t be turned off.
They don’t collect personal information.
We also use them to understand how the site is used.
You can choose to block these cookies in your browser, but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Analytics Cookies (Optional)
These cookies help us improve our website and keep content relevant.
We use third-party tools to analyse information gathered by cookies and understand how visitors use our website.
We only use information gathered by cookies internally. See our Privacy Policy.
You can turn these cookies off by clicking "Reject optional cookies", but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Menu
Home
Medicines
Browse medicine A-Z
Browse active ingredient A-Z
Medicines with black triangle
Discontinued medicines
RMM directory
Companies
Latest updates
About emc
Help
Log in
Sign up
Search emc: Enter medicine name or company
Start typing to retrieve search suggestions. When suggestions are available use up and down arrows to review and ENTER to select. Continue typing to refine.
Advanced search
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Report side effect
Report a suspected side effect or falsified product to the MHRA Yellow Card scheme.
Go to
site
Certified November 2025
Back to top
Paracetamol 500mg Tablets
Notify me of changes to this product
×
emc account functionality
Sign in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Active Ingredient:
paracetamol
Company:
Zentiva
See contact details
ATC code:
N02BE01
About Medicine
Prescription only medicine
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Healthcare Professionals (SmPC)
Patient Leaflet (PIL)
This information is for use by healthcare professionals
Last updated on emc:
29 Jan 2025
Quick Links
Undesirable Effects
Pharmacological Properties
Interactions
Posology
Contraindications
Excipients
Storage precautions
Print SmPC information
Expand All
1. Name of the medicinal product
Paracetamol 500 mg Tablets
2. Qualitative and quantitative composition
Each tablet contains 500 mg of paracetamol.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. Pharmaceutical form
Tablet.
White capsule shaped tablet with flat edges
4. Clinical particulars
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Paracetamol is a mild analgesic and antipyretic, and is recommended for the treatment of most painful and febrile conditions, for example, headache including migraine, toothache, neuralgia, colds and influenza, sore throat, backache, rheumatic pain and dysmenorrhoea.
4.2 Posology and method of administration
Posology
Adults, Elderly and Children over 16 years:
Two tablets every four hours as required. Not more than eight tablets in 24 hours Do not take for more than 3 days without consulting your doctor.
These doses should not be given more frequently than every four hours nor should more than four doses be given in any 24 hour period.
Paediatric population
Not recommended for children under 10 years of age.
Children aged 10 to 15 years:
One tablet every four to six hours when necessary to a maximum of four doses in 24 hours. Do not take for more than 3 days without consulting your doctor.
These doses should not be repeated more frequently than every four to six hours nor should more than four doses be given in any 24 hour period.
Method of administration
For oral administration
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use
Paediatric population
Not recommended for children under the age of 10 years.
Care is advised in the administration of paracetamol to patients with severe renal or severe hepatic impairment. The hazard of overdose is greater in those with non-cirrhotic alcoholic liver disease.
Do not exceed the recommended dose.
Do not take for more than 3 days without consulting a doctor.
Do not take with any other paracetamol-containing products.
If symptoms persist consult your doctor.
Keep out of the reach of children.
Cases of high anion gap metabolic acidosis (HAGMA) due to pyroglutamic acidosis have been reported in patients with severe illness such as severe renal impairment and sepsis, or in patients with malnutrition or other sources of glutathione deficiency (e.g. chronic alcoholism) who were treated with paracetamol at therapeutic dose for a prolonged period or a combination of paracetamol and flucloxacillin. If HAGMA due to pyroglutamic acidosis is suspected, prompt discontinuation of paracetamol and close monitoring is recommended. The measurement of urinary 5-oxoproline may be useful to identify pyroglutamic acidosis as underlying cause of HAGMA in patients with multiple risk factors.
Immediate medical advice should be sought in the event of an overdose, even if you feel well, because of the risk of delayed, serious liver damage.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The speed of absorption of paracetamol may be increased by metoclopramide or domperidone and absorption reduced by cholestyramine.
The anticoagulant effect of warfarin and other coumarins may be enhanced by prolonged regular daily use of paracetamol with increased risk of bleeding; occasional doses have no significant effect.
Caution should be taken when paracetamol is used concomitantly with flucloxacillin as concurrent intake has been associated with high anion gap metabolic acidosis due to pyroglutamic acidosis, especially in patients with risks factors (see section 4.4).
4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
Epidemiological studies in human pregnancy have shown no ill effects due to paracetamol used in the recommended dosage, but patients should follow the advice of their doctor regarding its use. A large amount of data on pregnant women indicate neither malformative, nor feto/neonatal toxicity. Epidemiological studies on neurodevelopment in children exposed to paracetamol in utero show inconclusive results. If clinically needed, paracetamol can be used during pregnancy if clinically needed however it should be used at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time and at the lowest possible frequency.
Breastfeeding
Paracetamol is excreted in breast milk but not in a clinically significant amount. Available published data do not contraindicate breast feeding.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Paracetamol has no influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
The information below lists reported adverse reactions, ranked using the following frequency classification:
Very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data).
Immune system disorders
Hypersensitivity including skin rash may occur.
Not known: anaphylactic shock; angioedema
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Not known: blood dyscrasias including thrombocytopenia and agranulocytosis
Skin and subcutaneous disorders
Very rare cases of serious skin reactions have been reported.
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Not known: high anion gap metabolic acidosis.
Description of selected adverse reactions
High anion gap metabolic acidosis
Cases of high anion gap metabolic acidosis due to pyroglutamic acidosis have been observed in patients with risk factors using paracetamol (see section 4.4). Pyroglutamic acidosis may occur as a consequence of low glutathione levels in these patients.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product.
Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via Yellow Card Scheme at: www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow Card in the Google Play or Apple App Store.
4.9 Overdose
Liver damage is possible in adults who have taken 10g or more of paracetamol. Ingestion of 5g or more of paracetamol may lead to liver damage if the patient has risk factors (see below).
Risk factors
If the patient:
• is on long term treatment with carbamazepine, phenobarbitone, phenytoin, primidone, rifampicin, St. John's Wort or other drugs that induce liver enzymes, or
• regularly consumes ethanol in excess of recommended amounts, or
• is likely to be glutathione deplete e.g. eating disorders, cystic fibrosis, HIV infection, starvation, cachexia.
Symptoms
Symptoms of paracetamol overdosage, in the first 24 hours are pallor, nausea, vomiting, anorexia and abdominal pain. Liver damage may become apparent 12 to 48 hours after ingestion. Abnormalities of glucose metabolism and metabolic acidosis may occur. In severe poisoning, hepatic failure may progress to encephalopathy, disseminated intravascular coagulation, haemorrhage, hypoglycaemia, cerebral oedema, gastrointestinal bleeding and death. Acute renal failure with acute tubular necrosis, strongly suggested by loin pain, haematuria and proteinuria may develop even in the absence of severe liver damage.
Cardiac arrhythmias and pancreatitis have been reported.
Management
Immediate treatment is essential in the management of paracetamol overdose. Despite a lack of significant early symptoms, patients should be referred to hospital urgently for immediate medical attention. Symptoms may be limited to nausea or vomiting and may not reflect the severity of overdose or the risk of organ damage. Management should be in accordance with established treatment guidelines (see BNF overdose section).
Treatment with activated charcoal should be considered if the overdose has been taken within 1 hour. Plasma paracetamol concentration should be measured at 4 hours or later after ingestion (earlier concentrations are unreliable). Treatment with N-acetylcysteine may be used up to 24 hours after ingestion of paracetamol, however, the maximum protective effect is obtained up to 8 hours post-ingestion. The effectiveness of the antidote declines sharply after this time. If required the patient should be given intravenous N-acetylcysteine, in line with the established dosage schedule. If vomiting is not a problem, oral methionine may be a suitable alternative for remote areas, outside hospital. Management of patients who present with serious hepatic dysfunction beyond 24h from ingestion should be discussed with the NPIS or a liver unit.
Further measures will depend on the severity, nature and course of clinical symptoms of paracetamol intoxication and should follow standard intensive care protocols.
5. Pharmacological properties
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties
ATC code: N02B E01, Other analgesics and antipyretics
Paracetamol is an effective analgesic and antipyretic agent, but has only weak anti-inflammatory properties. Its mechanism of action is not fully understood. It has been suggested that it may act predominantly by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis in the CNS and to a lesser extent through a peripheral action by blocking pain-impulse generation. The peripheral action may also be due to inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis or to inhibition of the synthesis or actions of other substances that sensitise pain receptors to mechanical or chemical stimulation. Paracetamol probably produces an antipyretic action by a central effect on the hypothalamic heat-regulating centre to produce peripheral vasodilation resulting in increased blood flow through the skin, sweating and heat loss. The central action probably involves inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis in the hypothalamus. The drug has no effect on the cardiovascular and respiratory systems, and unlike salicylates it does not cause gastric irritation or bleeding.
5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties
Paracetamol is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with peak plasma concentrations occurring about 30 minutes to 2 hours after ingestion. It is metabolised in the liver (90-95%) and excreted in the urine mainly as the glucuronide and sulphate conjugates. Less than 5% is excreted as unchanged paracetamol. The elimination half-life varies from about 1 to 4 hours. Plasma protein binding is negligible at usual therapeutic concentrations but increases with increasing concentrations.
A minor hydroxylated metabolite (N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine) which is usually produced in very small amounts by mixed-function oxidases in the liver and which is usually detoxified by conjugation with liver glutathione may accumulate following paracetamol overdosage and cause liver damage. The time to peak plasma concentration of paracetamol is 0.5 to 2 hours, the time to peak effect 1 to 3 hours and the duration of action 3 to 4 hours.
5.3 Preclinical safety data
There are no preclinical data of relevance to the prescriber which are additional to that already included in other sections of the SPC.
Conventional studies using the currently accepted standards for the evaluation of toxicity to reproduction and development are not available.
6. Pharmaceutical particulars
6.1 List of excipients
Maize starch
Purified talc
Stearic acid
Povidone
Soluble starch.
6.2 Incompatibilities
Not applicable
6.3 Shelf life
36 months.
6.4 Special precautions for storage
Store in the original package
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Polypropylene containers
Pack sizes: 500, 1000, 2500, 5000, 10000
Polyethylene bag contained in cardboard cartons
Pack sizes: 500, 1000, 2500, 5000, 10000
Amber glass bottles or polypropylene bottles
Pack sizes: 50, 100
Blister strips: 35gsm Glassine (pergamin) paper/9 micron soft temper Aluminium foil/250 micron PVC contained in cardboard cartons.
Pack sizes: 4, 6, 12, 16, 24, 30, 32, 48, 50, 60, 96, 100
HDPE Duma containers
Pack size: 4
Not all pack sizes are marketed.
6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Not applicable
7. Marketing authorisation holder
Zentiva Pharma UK Limited
12 New Fetter Lane
London
EC4A 1JP
United Kingdom
8. Marketing authorisation number(s)
PL 17780/0069
9. Date of first authorisation/renewal of the authorisation
13 November 2001
10. Date of revision of the text
24/01/2025
Zentiva
Address
First Floor, Andrews House, College Road, Guildford, Surrey, GU1 4QB, UK
Medical Information Direct Line
+44 (0)800 090 2408
Customer Care direct line
+44 (0)844 8793 188
E-mail
[email protected]
WWW
https://www.zentiva.co.uk/contact/mi-form
Medical Information e-mail
[email protected]
Contact us
Links
Accessibility
Legal and privacy notice
Cookie notice
Cookie Settings
Glossary
Site Maps
Delivered to you by
