Cetirizine Dihydrochloride 10 mg Film-Coated Tablets (GSL) (PL 43461/0110) - Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) - (emc) | 100094
We use cookies to improve your experience and to help us understand how our site is used. You can find out more about your options on our
Cookies page
.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
About Cookies
×
Most websites these days use cookies to store and retrieve information. Some of this information might be about you,
                your preferences or your device and is mostly used to help the website work in the way you expect.
This information doesn’t usually directly identify you but can give you a more personalized experience.
We will never sell any of your personally identifiable information, whether gathered using a cookie or otherwise.
We respect your right to privacy, so you can choose whether or not some cookies are enabled on our website.
                However, disabling some cookies can impact your experience and the services we are able to offer. For more information see our Cookie settings and Privacy Policy.
Essential Cookies (Required)
These cookies are essential for the website to work properly and can’t be turned off.
They don’t collect personal information.
We also use them to understand how the site is used.
You can choose to block these cookies in your browser, but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Analytics Cookies (Optional)
These cookies help us improve our website and keep content relevant.
We use third-party tools to analyse information gathered by cookies and understand how visitors use our website.
We only use information gathered by cookies internally. See our Privacy Policy.
You can turn these cookies off by clicking "Reject optional cookies", but parts of the site might not work as expected.
Accept all cookies
Reject optional cookies
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Menu
Home
Medicines
Browse medicine A-Z
Browse active ingredient A-Z
Medicines with black triangle
Discontinued medicines
RMM directory
Companies
Latest updates
About emc
Help
Log in
Sign up
Search emc: Enter medicine name or company
Start typing to retrieve search suggestions. When suggestions are available use up and down arrows to review and ENTER to select. Continue typing to refine.
Advanced search
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Report side effect
Report a suspected side effect or falsified product to the MHRA Yellow Card scheme.
Go to
site
Certified November 2025
Back to top
Cetirizine Dihydrochloride 10 mg Film-Coated Tablets (GSL) (PL 43461/0110)
Notify me of changes to this product
×
emc account functionality
Sign in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Active Ingredient:
cetirizine hydrochloride
Company:
Flamingo Pharma (UK) Ltd
See contact details
ATC code:
R06AE07
About Medicine
General Sales List
My Account Area
Find similar products:
Same active ingredient
Same company
By ATC code
Add to Favourites
View changes
Notification Preferences
Share via email
×
emc account functionality
Log in or register for an emc account to use this functionality and much more:
Get the latest updates to your inbox
Receive email notifications when chosen products are updated
Stay up to date with document change history
Get full access to document change history
Similar product search
Use active ingredient, company or ATC code
Save your regular searches
Simple access to search enquiries every time you need them
Favourite products you use most often
Helps you find products you use regularly as fast as possible
Close
Log in or register
Healthcare Professionals (SmPC)
Patient Leaflet (PIL)
This information is for use by healthcare professionals
Last updated on emc:
29 Jun 2026
Quick Links
Undesirable Effects
Pharmacological Properties
Interactions
Posology
Contraindications
Excipients
Storage precautions
Print SmPC information
Expand All
1. Name of the medicinal product
Cetirizine Dihydrochloride 10 mg Film-Coated Tablets
2. Qualitative and quantitative composition
One film-coated tablet contains 10 mg cetirizine dihydrochloride.
Excipient(s) with known effect: one film-coated tablet contains 100.20 mg lactose-monohydrate. For a full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. Pharmaceutical form
Film-coated tablets
White coloured, circular, biconvex film coated tablet. Marked with 'A' on one side and a break-line on the other.
4. Clinical particulars
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Adults and adolescents over 12 years of age:
Symptomatic treatment of allergic rhinitis (seasonal and perennial) associated allergic conjunctivitis, and chronic idiopathic urticaria.
Children 6-12 years:
Symptomatic treatment of allergic rhinitis (seasonal and perennial), and chronic idiopathic urticaria.
4.2 Posology and method of administration
Posology
Adults and adolescents over 12 years of age
:
1 tablet (10 mg) once daily
If drowsiness occurs, the tablet can be administered in the evening.
Special population
Elderly
Data do not suggest that the dose needs to be reduced in elderly subjects provided that the renal function is normal. The duration of the treatment may vary depending on the symptoms.
Renal impairment
There are no data to document the efficacy/safety ratio in patients with renal impairment. Since cetirizine is mainly excreted via renal route (see section 5.2), in cases no alternative treatment can be used, the dosing intervals must be individualized according to renal function. Refer to the following table and adjust the dose as indicated. To use this dosing table, an estimate of the patient's creatinine clearance (CLcr) in ml/min is needed. The CLcr (ml/min) may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dl) determination using the following formula:
Dosing adjustments for adult patients with impaired renal function
Group
Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR) (ml/min)
Dosage and frequency
Normal renal function
≥90
10 mg once daily
Mildly decreased renal function
60 - < 90
10 mg once daily
Moderately decreased renal function
30 – < 60
5 mg once daily
Severely decreased renal function
15 - <30 not requiring dialysis treatment
5 mg once every 2 days
End-stage renal disease
<15 requiring dialysis treatment
Contraindicated
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is needed in patients with solely hepatic impairment. In patients with hepatic impairment and renal impairment, adjustment of the dose is recommended (see renal impairment above)
Paediatric population
The tablet formulation should not be used in children under 6 years of age as it does not allow the necessary dose adjustments.
Children aged 6 to 12 years: 5 mg twice daily (a half tablet twice daily).
Adolescents above 12 years: 10 mg once daily (1 tablet).
In paediatric patients suffering from renal impairment, the dose will have to be adjusted on an individual basis taking into account the renal clearance, age and body weight of the patient.
Method of administration
For oral use.
4.3 Contraindications
- Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, to hydroxyzine or to any piperazine derivatives.
- Patients with end-stage renal disease with an eGFR (estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate) below 15 ml/min.
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use
In some patients, long term treatment with cetirizine tablets may lead to an increased risk of caries due to mouth dryness. The patients should therefore be informed about the importance of oral hygiene.
At therapeutic doses, no clinically significant interactions have been demonstrated with alcohol (for a blood alcohol level of 0.5 g/L). Nevertheless, precaution is recommended if alcohol is taken concomitantly.
Caution should be taken in patients with predisposition factors of urinary retention (e.g. spinal cord lesion, prostatic hyperplasia) as cetirizine may increase the risk of urinary retention.
Caution is recommended in epileptic patients and patients at risk of convulsions.
Response to allergy skin tests are inhibited by antihistamines and a wash- out period (of 3 days) is required before performing them.
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take cetirizine film-coated tablets.
Pruritus and/ or urticaria may occur when cetirizine is stopped
even if these symptoms were not present before In some cases, symptoms may be intense and may require restarting the treatment, to which symptoms should resolve.
Paediatric Population
The use of the film-coated tablet formulation is not recommended in children aged less than 6 years since the formulation does not allow for appropriate dose adaptation.
It is recommended to use a paediatric formulation of cetirizine.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Due to the pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic and tolerance profile of cetirizine, no interactions are expected with this antihistamine. Actually, neither pharmacodynamic nor significant pharmacokinetic interaction was reported in drug-drug interactions studies performed, notably with pseudoephedrine or theophylline (400 mg/day).
The extent of absorption of cetirizine is not reduced with food, although the rate of absorption is decreased.
In sensitive patients, the concurrent use of alcohol or other CNS depressants may cause additional reductions in alertness and impairment of performance although cetirizine does not potentiate the effect of alcohol (0.5 g/l blood levels).
4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
For cetirizine, prospectively collected data on pregnancy outcomes do not suggest potential for maternal or foetal/embryonic toxicity above background rates.
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/fetal development, parturition or postnatal development. Caution should be exercised when prescribing to pregnant women.
Breast-feeding
Cetirizine passes into breast milk. A risk of side effects in breastfed infants cannot be excluded. Cetirizine is excreted in human milk at concentrations representing 25% to 90% of those measured in plasma, depending on sampling time after administration. Therefore, caution should be exercised when prescribing cetirizine to lactating women.
Fertility
Limited data is available on human fertility but no safety concern has been identified. Animal data shows no safety concern for human reproduction.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Objective measurements of driving ability, sleep latency and assembly line performance have not demonstrated any clinically relevant effects at the recommended dose of 10 mg. However, patients who experience somnolence should refrain from driving, engaging in potentially hazardous activities or operating machinery. They should not exceed the recommended dose and should take their response to the medicinal product into account.
In these sensitive patients, concurrent use with alcohol or other CNS depressants may cause additional reductions in alertness and impairment of performance.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Overview
Clinical studies have shown that cetirizine at the recommended dosage has minor undesirable effects on the CNS, including somnolence, fatigue, dizziness and headache. In some cases, paradoxical CNS stimulation has been reported.
Although cetirizine is a selective antagonist of peripheral H1-receptors and is relatively free of anticholinergic activity, isolated cases of micturition difficulty, eye accommodation disorders and dry mouth have been reported.
Instances of abnormal hepatic function with elevated hepatic enzymes accompanied by elevated bilirubin have been reported. Mostly this resolves upon discontinuation of the treatment with cetirizine dihydrochloride.
Listing of ADRs
Double blind controlled clinical trials comparing cetirizine to placebo or other antihistamines at the recommended dosage (10 mg daily for cetirizine), of which quantified safety data are available, included more than 3200 subjects exposed to cetirizine.
From this pooling, the following adverse events were reported for cetirizine 10 mg in the placebo-controlled trials at rates of 1.0 % or greater:
Adverse event
(WHO-ART)
Cetirizine 10 mg
(n= 3260)
Placebo
(n = 3061)
General disorders and administration site conditions
Fatigue
1.63 %
0.95 %
Nervous system disorders
Dizziness
Headache
1.10 %
7.42 %
0.98 %
8.07 %
Gastro-intestinal system disorders
Abdominal pain
Dry mouth
Nausea
0.98 %
2.09 %
1.07 %
1.08 %
0.82 %
1.14 %
Psychiatric disorders
Somnolence
9.63 %
5.00 %
Respiratory system disorders
Pharyngitis
1.29 %
1.34 %
Although statistically more common than under placebo, somnolence was mild to moderate in the majority of cases. Objective tests as demonstrated by other studies have demonstrated that usual daily activities are unaffected at the recommended daily dose in healthy young volunteers.
Paediatric Populations
Adverse drug reactions at rates of 1 % or greater in children aged from 6 months to 12 years, included in placebo-controlled clinical trials are:
Adverse drug reactions
(WHO-ART)
Cetirizine
(n=1656)
Placebo
(n =1294)
Gastro-intestinal system disorders
Diarrhoea
1.0 %
0.6 %
Psychiatric disorders
Somnolence
1.8 %
1. 4 %
Respiratory system disorders
Rhinitis
1.4 %
1.1 %
General disorders and administration site conditions
Fatigue
1.0 %
0.3 %
Post-marketing experience
In addition to the adverse effects reported during clinical studies and listed above, isolated cases of the following adverse drug reactions have been reported in post- marketing experience.
Undesirable effects are described according to MedDRA System Organ Class and by estimated frequency based on post-marketing experience.
Frequencies are defined as follows: Very common (≥1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data)
Blood and lymphatic disorders:
Very rare: thrombocytopenia
Immune system disorders:
Rare: hypersensitivity, allergic reactions (see Skin and subcutaneous disorders)
Very rare: anaphylactic shock
Metabolism and nutrition disorders:
Not known: increased appetite
Psychiatric disorders:
Uncommon: agitation
Rare: aggression, confusion, depression, hallucination, insomnia
Very rare: tics.
Not known: Suicidal ideation, Nightmares.
Nervous system disorders:
Uncommon: paraesthesia
Rare: convulsions
Very rare: dysgeusia, syncope, tremor, dystonia, dyskinesia
Not known: amnesia, memory impairment
Eye disorders:
Rare: abnormal involuntary eye movements.
Very rare: accommodation disorder, blurred vision, oculogyric crisis.
Ear and labyrinth disorders:
Not known: vertigo
Cardiac disorders:
Rare: tachycardia
Gastro-intestinal disorders:
Uncommon: diarrhoea
Hepatobiliary disorders:
Rare: abnormal hepatic function (increased transaminases, alkaline phosphatase, γ-GT and bilirubin)
Not known: hepatitis
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders:
Uncommon: skin rash, pruritus,
Rare: urticaria
Very rare: fixed drug eruption, erythema multiforme, angioneurotic oedema
Not known: acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders:
Not known: arthralgia, myalgia.
Renal and urinary disorders:
Very rare: dysuria, enuresis, micturition difficulties
Not known: urinary retention
General disorders and administration site conditions:
Uncommon: asthenia, malaise
Rare: oedema
Investigations:
Rare: weight increased
Description of selected adverse reactions
After discontinuation of cetirizine, pruritus (intense itching) and/ or urticaria have been reported
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the Yellow Card Scheme at: www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow Card on the Google Play or Apple App Store.
4.9 Overdose
There is limited experience of overdosing, 20 mg to a 2-year-old, 30 mg to a 3-year- old and 40 mg to an 11-year-old did not give any symptoms. 60 mg to a 4-year-old gave mild intoxication, 400 mg to a 14-year-old gave mild symptoms, while 400 to 500 mg to an adult gave no symptoms at all
Symptoms
Symptoms observed after an overdose of cetirizine are mainly associated with CNS effects or with effects that could suggest an anticholinergic effect.
Adverse events reported after an intake of at least 5 times the recommended daily dose are: confusion, diarrhoea, dizziness, fatigue, headache, malaise, mydriasis, pruritus, restlessness, sedation, somnolence, stupor, tachycardia, tremor, and urinary retention.
Management
There is no known specific antidote to cetirizine.
Should overdose occur, symptomatic or supportive treatment is recommended. Gastric lavage may be considered shortly after the ingestion of the drug.
The patient should be kept under clinical observation for at least four hours after ingestion, and the blood pressure, heart rate and vital signs monitored until stable. In symptomatic cases, ECG should be performed
.
Oral activated charcoal (50 g for an adult, 10-15 g for a child) should be considered if more than 2.5 mg/kg cetirizine has been ingested within one hour
Cetirizine is not effectively removed by dialysis.
5. Pharmacological properties
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antihistamine for systemic use, piperazine derivative, ATC code: R06A E07
Mechanism of action
Cetirizine, a human metabolite of hydroxyzine, is a potent and selective antagonist of peripheral H1-receptros. In vitro receptor binding studies have shown no measurable affinity for other than H1-receptors.
Pharmacodynamic effects
In addition to its anti-H1 effect, cetirizine was shown to display anti-allergic activities: at a dose of 10 mg once or twice daily, it inhibits the late phase recruitment of eosinophils, in the skin and conjunctiva of atopic subjects submitted to allergen challenge. Cetirizine inhibits cutaneous reactions in allergic individuals by VIP (Vasoactive Intestinal Polypeptide) and the P substance, neuropeptides that are considered involved in the allergic reaction. Effect is reached within 2 hours with a maximum effect after 4 hours, and remains for at least 24 hours.
Clinical efficacy and safety
Studies in healthy volunteers show that cetirizine, at doses of 5 and 10mg strongly inhibits the wheal and flare reactions induced by very high concentrations of histamine into the skin, but the correlation with efficacy is not established.
In a six-week, placebo-controlled study of 186 patients with allergic rhinitis and concomitant mild to moderate asthma, cetirizine 10 mg once daily improved rhinitis symptoms and did not alter pulmonary function. This study supports the safety of administering cetirizine to allergic patients with mild to moderate asthma.
In a placebo-controlled study, cetirizine given at the high daily dose of 60 mg for seven days did not cause statistically significant prolongation of QT interval.
At the recommended dosage, cetirizine has demonstrated that it improves the quality of life of patients with perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis.
Paediatric population
In a 35-day study in children aged 5 to 12, no tolerance to the antihistaminic effect (suppression of wheal and flare) of cetirizine was found. When a treatment with cetirizine is topped after repeated administration, the skin recovers its normal reactivity to histamine within 3 days.
5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption
The steady - state peak plasma concentrations is approximately 300 ng/ml and is achieved within 1.0 ± 0.5 h. The distribution of pharmacokinetic parameters such as peak plasma concentration (Cmax) and area under curve (AUC), is unimodal.
The extent of absorption of cetirizine is not reduced with food, although the rate of absorption is decreased. The extent of bioavailability is similar when cetirizine is given as solutions, capsules or tablets.
Distribution
Cetirizine has not been given intravenously, therefore the bioavailability, and clearance is unknown.
The apparent volume of distribution is 0.50 l/kg. Plasma protein binding of cetirizine is 93 ± 0.3 %. Maximum plasma concentration is achieved within 1 hour. Cetirizine does not modify the protein binding of warfarin.
Biotransformation
Cetirizine does not undergo extensive first pass metabolism Cetirizine is metabolised to a small extent with a known inactive main metabolite.
Elimination
Cetirizine is eliminated to 60% in unchanged form via the kidneys within 96 hours. The terminal half-life is approximately 10 hours in adults and 6 hours in children between ages of 6-12 years and no accumulation is observed for cetirizine following daily doses of 10 mg for 10 days. About two third of the dose are excreted unchanged in urine.
Linearity
Cetirizine exhibits linear kinetics over the range of 5 to 60mg.
Renal impairment
: The pharmacokinetics of the drug was similar in patients with mild impairment (creatinine clearance higher than 40 ml/min) and healthy volunteers. Patients with moderate renal impairment had a 3-fold increase in half-life and 70 % decrease in clearance compared to healthy volunteers.
Patients on hemodialysis (creatinine clearance less than 7 ml/min) given a single oral 10 mg dose of cetirizine had a 3-fold increase in half-life and a 70% decrease in clearance compared to normals. Cetirizine was poorly cleared by haemodialysis. Dosing adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (see section 4.2).
Hepatic impairment
: Patients with chronic liver diseases (hepatocellular, cholestatic, and biliary cirrhosis) given 10 or 20 mg of cetirizine as a single dose had a 50 % increase in half-life along with a 40 % decrease in clearance compared to healthy subjects.
Dosing adjustment is only necessary in patients with hepatic impairment if concomitant renal impairment is present.
Elderly
: Following a single 10 mg oral dose, half-life increased by about 50% and clearance decreased by 40 % in 16 elderly subjects compared to the younger subjects. The decrease in cetirizine clearance in these elderly volunteers appeared to be related to their decreased renal function.
Paediatric population
: The half-life of cetirizine was about 6 hours in children of 6-12 years and 5 hours in children 2-6 years. In infants and toddlers aged 6 to 24 months, it is reduced to 3.1 hours
5.3 Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, toxicity to reproduction, genotoxicity or carcinogenicity and development.
6. Pharmaceutical particulars
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core
Lactose monohydrate
Microcrystalline cellulose
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Maize starch
Talc
Magnesium stearate
Coating
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Hypromellose
Lactose monohydrate
Macrogol
Sodium citrate
6.2 Incompatibilities
Not applicable
6.3 Shelf life
3 years
6.4 Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Blister comprising of PVC/Aluminium foil with 7, 14 and 30 tablets. Not all packs may be marketed.
6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling
No special requirements.
7. Marketing authorisation holder
Flamingo Pharma UK Ltd.
1st Floor, Kirkland House,
11-15 Peterborough Road,
Harrow, Middlesex,
HA1 2AX, United Kingdom.
8. Marketing authorisation number(s)
PL 43461/0110
9. Date of first authorisation/renewal of the authorisation
17/02/2024
10. Date of revision of the text
17/06/2026
Flamingo Pharma (UK) Ltd
Address
The BLOC, 38 Springfield Way, Kingston Upon Hull, HU10 6RJ, UK
Telephone
+44 (0) 7784240228
Medical Information Direct Line
+44 8000668348
WWW
http://www.flamingopharma.co.uk
Stock Availability
[email protected]
Contact us
Links
Accessibility
Legal and privacy notice
Cookie notice
Cookie Settings
Glossary
Site Maps
Delivered to you by
